---
title: "Settings - Tournament"
slug: tournament
---

## Name & Info

### Name & Location

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Tournament_-_Name_and_Info_-_Name_&_Location.png" title="Settings_-_Tournament_-_Name_and_Info_-_Name_&_Location.png" />

**Tournament Full Name** - Tournament Full Name - This is the name which
will appear on tournament calendars and in things like result packets.
Do not include a year in your tournament name; the year will
automatically be applied to your tournament name on public-facing pages.

**Tournament public site** - Tournament public site - This is the name
for your tournament's website, which comes in the form
webname.tabroom.com. Visitors to that web address will be taken
directly to your Tournament Info page on Tabroom, where they can view
your invitation, postings, results, etc. The webname must be lowercase
or numbers with no punctuation. If you repeat the URL for a tournament
from year to year, your tournament's history of results will be
available on your Tournament Info page.

**City/Location** - This will control where your tournament is listed on
various Tabroom Calendars and indicates whether
the tournament is online or in-person.

**State/Country (if applicable)** - specifying the location of a
tournament.

**Time Zone** - The timezone for your tournament controls things like
your registration deadlines, drop fee deadlines, etc.

### Logo

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Tournament_-_General_-_Copy_Settings.png" title="Settings_-_Tournament_-_General_-_Copy_Settings.png" />

**Logo (PNG or JPG)** - file upload option that will appear in upper
right of tournament's tabroom page

**Invitation** - file upload option that will now appear on tournament's
'Settings: Website' tab

**Congress Legislation** - file upload option that will now appear on
tournament's 'Settings: Website' tab

### Circuits

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Tournament_-_Name_and_Info_-_Circuits.png" title="Settings_-_Tournament_-_Name_and_Info_-_Circuits.png" />

**Circuits** - categories used to sort tournaments on Tabroom.com.
Designating a circuit will have the tournament appear on the main
calendar to members of that circuit

## General

### General Settings

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Tournament_-_General_-_General_Settings.png" title="Settings_-_Tournament_-_General_-_General_Settings.png" />

**Test tournament (hidden from public)** - A "test" tournament will not
appear on any of the Tabroom calendars and
will enable features that allow you to quickly generate "fake" entries,
judges, and results. This can be useful when experimenting with Tabroom,
but it should never be enabled for a real tournament.

**Require adult contact info to register** - This will ask people
registering for your tournament to provide an adult's contact
information before proceeding with their registration. This is useful to
ensure that you can get in touch with someone responsible, especially if
competitors are allowed to attend your tournament unsupervised. Coaches
will need to enter a contact name, email, and phone number and hit
"Save" before the registration tabs allowing them to add students and
judges will appear for them. This contact will receive tournament
communications through Tabroom.

**Tabroom account based coaches & contacts** - This will allow only
those with Tabroom.com accounts to be added to and compete in your
tournament.

**Require second adult contact or coach** - This will ask people
registering for your tournament to provide a primary and a secondary
adult's contact information before proceeding with their registration.
If you have also selected "Require adult contact info to register",
Tabroom will require the primary contact to be added before coaches can
proceed with registration, but missing a secondary contact will not
prevent them from moving forward.

**Tournament-wide cap on entries** - sets a tournament wide limit on
number of entries, not by event.

**Log registration changes** - This will keep a log on Tabroom
(accessible in Entries > Change Log) of changes made to registration,
including adds, drops, timestamps, and the account that made the change.

**Closed tournament: admin staff registers** - This option will disable
all online registration. Entries and judges will instead need to be
entered manually by a tournament administrator from the Entries menu.

**Waitlisted still count for double entry** - If you have set entry
limits for any event (at Settings > Events > Registration), the
default is that coaches can enter waitlisted entries beyond that cap,
and those waitlisted entries do not abide by tournament rules regarding
double entry. Enable this setting to ensure waitlisted entries cannot be
double-entered in events that your tournament settings prohibit.

**Use school regions** - Toggle this option to enable additional
settings at Settings > Events > Pairing that control in-region
match-ups and judging within a region. Create and assign schools to
regions at Entries > Data. Regions are fully customizable and can be
used to separate geographic regions, districts, leagues, etc.

**Require disaster check before publishing** - Toggle this option to
require your tab staff to run disaster checks on every pairing before
publishing. We recommend every tournament use this setting to minimize
issues with pairing rounds.

**Mock Trial Registration** - This option is only relevant if you are
hosting a Mock Trial event. Please ignore for all speech and debate
tournaments.

**Ask for refund information** - This option will ask registrants to
enter refund information during registration. On the General tab of a
school's registration, Tabroom will ask who to make refund checks
payable to and the address to send refund checks. Refund information can
be collected at Entries > Reports > Refund Mailing Information.

**NSDA Paid Members only** - Toggle to only allow NSDA paid member
schools and students to register.

**Publish list of registered schools** - Toggle to display list of
registered schools on tournament's public-facing Tournament Info page on
the Entries tab.

**Hide Tabroom deadlines from registration view** - The default is that
registered coaches and students will be able to see tournament deadlines
in advance of the tournament. This option will need to be toggled to
actually hide deadlines.

**Hide Speaker Codes from Registrants** - The default is that registered
coaches and students will be able to see their speaker codes in advance
of the tournament by logging into their Tabroom accounts. This option is
used for tournaments who want to disable registrants from knowing codes
in advance. This option will need to be turned off the day of the
tournament to enable students and coaches to know their codes.

**School code style** - Tabroom automatically assigns a code to each
registered school, and this setting allows you to choose the code style.
These codes sort schools on the Entries > Schools dropdown and can be
used on public pairings and results if "school code" is included in your
selection at Settings > Events > "Entry codes".

**Allow duplicate codes in different events** - The default is that an
entry's code cannot be repeated across the tournament in any event. For
example, the code "Test School AB" cannot exist as both an LD entry and
a PF entry, even though those entries have different students. Toggle
this option to allow duplicate codes to be used in different events.

**Do not avoid ADA /other pools' rooms** - The default is that once a
tournament designates ADA rooms and specific pool rooms, those rooms are
off limits to other events and non-ADA labeled rooms. Toggle this button
if you do not want to avoid using ADA rooms and specific pools' rooms.

**Do not give schools the option to bring judges** - The default for all
tournaments is to allow schools to bring judges. Toggle this, if for
some reason, you don't need schools to bring judges.

**No money/fees screen for schools** - Toggle this, if for some reason,
you want to hide the money/fee screen from schools.

**Allow entry drops on school dashboard** - Toggle this button if you
want to allow schools to drop entries from the school dashboard. You
should, ideally, never use this.

**Printout Paper Size** - If you plan to print any schematics or
reports, this option controls the sizing of those report printouts to
fit on your paper.

### Day-of/Arrival Online registration

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Tournament_-_General_-_Online_day_of_registration.png" title="Settings_-_Tournament_-_General_-_Online_day_of_registration.png" />

**Enable online registration system** - Toggle this option if you plan
to use the online day-of registration feature. Note that enabling the
system alone does not open the day-of registration for participants to
confirm their registration. Day-of registration will only open at the
time set in the "Online registration starts" setting.

**Only paid schools may register** - Toggle this option if you would
like to prevent schools with a positive balance on the Fees tab of their
school's registration from confirming their registration.

**Online registration starts** - Sets the date and time participants can
begin confirming their registration.

**Online registration ends** - Sets the date and time online
registration confirmation ends.

**Notes on onsite registration page** - Allows for custom note writing
that will appear to participants during the online registration
confirmation process.

**Upload Packet** - File upload for information/registration packets for
participants.

### Clone Settings

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Tournament_-_General_-_Copy_Settings.png" title="Settings_-_Tournament_-_General_-_Copy_Settings.png" />

Option to allow duplication of settings from a previously held
tournament. This should be used if you did NOT clone your tournament
during the initial tournament set up process. Selecting "Erase current"
will replace all current settings with the tournament settings you are
cloning. Selecting "Include Entries" will copy entries from the
tournament you are cloning to your current tournament.

### Site Admin Only Options

You almost definitely should ignore these - they are only applicable if
you are running particular Nationals (like NSDA Nationals, NCFL, etc),
or need to require specific NSDA District requirements for your
tournament.

## Dates

### Dates & Deadlines

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Tournament_-_Dates.png" title="Settings_-_Tournament_-_Dates.png" />

**Tournament start** - Sets the date and time a tournament starts. This
is also the time NSDA Campus utility rooms will become live.

**Tournament end** - sets the date and time a tournament ends

**Registration opens** - sets the date and time schools can register for
a tournament

**New entries due** - sets the deadline that schools can register new
entries for a tournament

**Judge registration due** - sets the deadline for schools to enter
judges into a tournament.

**Fees & Obligations freeze** - sets the date and time that fees and
judging obligations cease to change regardless of changes to a school's
entry.

**Drops & name changes due** - sets the deadline for when schools can
drop and change the names of their entries on their own.

**Nuisance fines apply after** - Sets the date and time nuisance fines
such as drop fees, late add fees, and fines for no-show judges go into
effect. Set up nuisance fines at Settings > Money.

**Script info and uploads by** - Sets the deadline for script
information and script uploads to be added, when applicable. (there's a
separate deadline for video links).

## Access

### Administrator Access

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Tournament_-_Access_-_Admin_Access.png" title="Settings_-_Tournament_-_Access_-_Admin_Access.png" />

**Owner** - The account that created the tournament is automatically
named the tournament owner and contact. For district tournaments, the
tournament owner has additional permissions unlocked prior to tournament
admins.

**Tabber** - This level of permissions gives accounts full access to
settings, registration, and tabulation features.

**Checker** - This level of permissions gives an account access to
status dashboards, ballot entry, and judge lists.

If you have tournament staff who only need to have access to one event
rather than the full tournament, you can select specific events on the
right for that purpose.

To completely revoke someone's access, click the "trash can" button next
to their name.

### Add Access

To add a new account, use the box on the sidebar:

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Tournament_-_Access_-_Add_New_Staff.png" title="Settings_-_Tournament_-_Access_-_Add_New_Staff.png" />

## Messages

### Messages

The Messages tab lets you include information that will appear on
invoices (such as a mailing address for checks, or other pertinent
payment info), as well as a disclaimer that will appear before allowing
schools to register (such as a policy regarding student supervision):

<img src="/screenshots/setup_tourn_messages.png" title="setup_tourn_messages.png" width="500" />

### Message on waitlist admission emails

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_TOurnament_-_Messages_-_waitlist.png" title="Settings_-_TOurnament_-_Messages_-_waitlist.png" />

### School Forms

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Tournament_-_Messages_-_Documents.png" title="Settings_-_Tournament_-_Messages_-_Documents.png" />

## Notes

The Notes tab is just a scratchpad for you to keep track of ideas or
problems that arise during the tournament, like reminders of how to do
something on Tabroom, or thoughts on which restaurant to use for
catering, or which competition rooms turned out to be too small. These
notes will then be preserved in future years if you use the Clone
Tournament function when setting up the tournament.

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Tournament_-_Messages_-_Notes.png" title="Settings_-_Tournament_-_Messages_-_Notes.png" />

## Payment

The Payment tab allows you to pay for the use of Tabroom during your
tournament based on entry numbers and/or to pay for the use of NSDA
Campus rooms if your tournament is being held online.

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Tournament_-_Payment_-_Purchase.png" title="Settings_-_Tournament_-_Payment_-_Purchase.png" />

**Tabroom licenses** - Allows you to pay for the use of Tabroom.com to
run your tournament. Charges here are based upon all entries above the
50 free entries you get to host via Tabroom.com

**Campus Rooms** - Allows you to select and pay for the number of
general NSDA Campus rooms you will need for your online tournament.

**Campus Rooms with Observers** - Allows you to select and pay for the
number of NSDA Campus observer rooms for your online tournament.
