---
title: Settings - Judging
slug: judging
---

## Add New Judge Category

<img src="/screenshots/add_new_judge_category.png" title="add_new_judge_category.png" />

After you click Add New Judge Category, you will see this screen:

<img src="/screenshots/name.png" title="name.png" />

In this screen, you need to enter a name for the judge category and
click "Save Registration Settings" before you can fill out the other
settings on this page.

## Register

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Judges_-_Add_new_judge_category.png" title="Settings_-_Judges_-_Add_new_judge_category.png" />

**Category Name** - This is just the name of the judge group. Should
usually be something like "Policy" or "Individual Events."

**Suppress judge codes (names only)** - When checked, judges will appear
on schematics and registration information with their names, instead of
a judge code like "733."

**Publish the list of judges online** - Controls whether the list of
registered judges will be available on your tournament's public website.

**Require judges to have linked Tabroom accounts** - Toggle this button
to force all judges to have their judge entries "linked" to a Tabroom
account, which is necessary for online ballots to function correctly.

**Require judge accounts to have phone numbers** - Toggle this button to
require that coaches enter a phone number for their judge during
registration if they do not have one in their profile.

**Ask for judge departure times at registration** - Toggle this button
to require coaches to enter when their judges will no longer be
available to judge at the tournament during the registration process.

**Judge details due** - This sets the deadline for entering judge notes,
availability, and required information. This will override the judge
deadline set at Settings > Tournament > Dates for this judge category
if the deadline set is before the overall tournament deadline.

**Entries per judge owed** - Enter a value here if you want to require
one judge for a certain number of entries in the events in this judge
category. For example, you can require schools bring 1 judge per 4
entries in speech.

**Rounds owed per entry** - Enter the number of rounds of judging
required to "cover" each entry. For example, each LD entry carries an
obligation of 3 rounds.

**Fee per judge in attendance** - Enter a value to charge a school per
judge entered.

**Fee per judge obligation, hired or registered** - Enter a value to
charge a school based on the total amount of judge obligation for their
school.

**Abbreviation, max 4 letters:** - This abbreviation will be used in
various places throughout Tabroom to make things easier to read and make
printouts align better, etc. It's recommended you set an abbreviation
for each judge group.

**Show judge contact info on registration printouts** - Toggle to show
judge contact information on the registration printouts found at Entries
> Schools > Select School > "Registration" under Printouts.

**Ask for judge qualifications and histories** - This option will ask
registering schools to provide a short description of each judge's
qualifications and judging history. Note that this is separate from and
in addition to the normal judge Paradigms.

**Ask for parliamentarians** - Toggle to ask schools to mark judges
qualified and/or interested in being parliamentarians for Congressional
Debate.

**Registrants can mark first year outs** - When checked, registering
schools will be given the option of marking a judge as a "first year
out," i.e. that it's their first year judging after graduating from high
school. You can then use other options in the Judge Group and Event
settings to make first-year out judges free strikes, prevent them from
seeing certain events/divisions, etc.

**Label for FYOs** - If you want registering schools to be able to mark
judges as something other than "first year out", enter the label here.
For example, you could have coaches mark their judges as "student
judges".

**Registrants can mark neutral judges** - Registering schools will be
able to mark judges they enter as "neutral," which means that they are
allowed to judge their own school's entries. This can be useful when
schools bring judges to the tournament who aren't actually affiliated
with their program, do no coaching, and would not normally be considered
"constrained" from judging that school.

**Allow judge double-entry in other categories** - This lets schools
enter judges in multiple judge categories. You should only enable this
option if you're sure that your schedule contains no overlap or if you
plan to deactivate duplicate judges, otherwise it's very easy to find
yourself with double-scheduled judges that can't actually be in two
places at once.

**Ask to specify an 2nd/alternate judge category** - This will ask the
registering school to provide an "alternate" category for the judge, so
that you can move judges into their "second choice" judge category if
necessary. For example, this can help to even out judge numbers between
events.

**Drops do not count against judge burden** - Toggle to allow dropping
entries to reduce a school's judging obligation, even after the judge
deadline has passed.

**Fine per missing judge** - A fee for each missing judge will
automatically be added to the school's invoice. This option is only
available if you're using the "entries per judge" burden method.

**Minimum judges owed if school has entries** - The minimum number of
judges each school owes, regardless of their obligation set under
"burden method". This option is only available if you're using the
"entries per judge" burden method.

**Maximum judges a school can owe** - The maximum number of judges each
school owes, regardless of their obligation set under "burden method".
This option is only available if you're using the "entries per judge"
burden method.

**Free judges: reduce judge burden by** - This option will automatically
subtract the number of free judges you list from the number of judges
each school owes. This option is only available if you're using the
"entries per judge" burden method.

**Maximum number of judges that can count towards their alternate
category** - If you allow judges to choose an alternate category in
which to judge, this allows you to set a cap on the number of judges a
school can count in that alternate category.

**Qualifications & Questionnaires** - This section allows you to require
judges to complete particular trainings in order to judge at your
tournament.

<img src="/screenshots/Judge_Questionnaire.png" title="Judge_Questionnaire.png" />

**Judge Registration Questions** - This section allows you to ask judges
particular questions related to following the set rules of your
tournament, etc. You can craft free response questions, questions that
only require a yes/no answer or questions that require numerical
answers.

<img src="/screenshots/Judge_Registration_Questions.png" title="Judge_Registration_Questions.png" />

## Hires

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Judges_-_Hires.png" title="Settings_-_Judges_-_Hires.png" />

**Offer tournament hired judging** - Unlike the Hiring Exchange, which
lets judges and schools match up judging themselves, this option enables
offering judging provided directly by the tournament.

**Registrant cannot cancel accepted hires** - Toggle to prevent schools
from cancelling hired judging and related charges.

**Missing Judge Fee ($150) counts as a hire** - Toggle this button to
set the missing judge fee as the same as fee for a hire.

**Number of hired judges available** - You can set the total number of
judges that you have available to hire here.

**Number of judges a school may not hire** - This allows you to set the
number of judges that schools may not hire out.

**Request Hires By** - Set a time and date that cuts off schools from
requesting hired judging.

**Charge for each whole judge hired** - Choose either this option or
"charge for each entry". This option adds a per-judge fee, e.g. "hiring
one judge in this category costs $200".

**Charge for each entry covered by hires** - Choose either this option
or "charge for each whole judge". This option allows schools to purchase
judge coverage on a per-entry basis. For example, "hire judging to cover
LD entries at $50 an entry".

**Enable Judge Exchange** - This will enable a "Hiring Exchange" for
your tournament. Judges will then be able to "offer" hired rounds of
judging, (see the section on Judging), and schools registering will be
able to "claim" offered rounds. The tournament director must approve
hiring offers before they will appear in the exchange under the Entries
> Judges menu.

**Conflict exchange-hired judging** - This option conflicts judges from
the school that hires them when the school hires the judge off the
Tabroom exchange.

**Enable Public Judge Signups** - This option will allow judges to
register for your tournament on your public Tabroom site. Use this to
have hired or volunteer judges sign in with their own information and
Tabroom accounts. Enter a message for the public signup page under the
Messages tab. All publicly signed up judges will be marked INACTIVE to
begin; you must activate them before they will be available to judge.

**Signup Deadline** - This is the deadline for judges to register for
your tournament on your public Tabroom site.

## Tabbing

### Pairing Settings

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Judges_-_Tabbing_-_Pairing_Settings.png" title="Settings_-_Judges_-_Tabbing_-_Pairing_Settings.png" />

**Prevent back to back rounds** - Toggle to not allow judges to judge
two consecutive rounds.

**Judges can get the same event twice** - Toggle that allows judges to
judge multiple rounds in the same event if there are multiple events
covered by this judge category.

**Do not let judge pools override categories** - Toggle to allow judge
pools created for events to override the judge categories that you
created before the tournament started.

**Allow panels w/same school judges** - Toggle to allow panels of judges
to have more than one judge from the same school.

**Allow panels w/same region judges** - Toggle to allow panels of judges
to have more than one judge from the same region.

**Randomize judge assignments** - Toggle to allow Tabroom.com's default
to randomize judges when pairing rounds.

**Use diversity tracking** - Toggle to use this feature to keep track of
diversity enhancing judges that are used throughout your tournament.

**Show diversity opt-ins on prefs** - Toggle to allow judges to mark
themselves as a diversity enhancing judge.

**Show training ballot online** - Toggle to allow new judges' ballots to
be posted online.

**Training ballot Name** - Allows you to label any training ballots.

**Training Location** - Allows you to set the location where training is
taking place.

**Training Time** - Allows you to set the time when a training session
will begin.

### Tabulation Settings

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Judges_-_Tabbing_-_Tabulation_Settings.png" title="Settings_-_Judges_-_Tabbing_-_Tabulation_Settings.png" />

**Ballot Entry Method** - Choose which method to use for
confirming/double-checking ballot entry. Your choices are:

- "Enter twice; 2nd must match" - Each ballot must be entered twice
  before showing as complete (preferably by two different people, to
  prevent mistakes).
- "Visual scan with confirmation" - After entering a ballot, you will be
  shown a review of your entered data and asked to confirm it.
- "Live dangerously; no required double-check" - This option will mark a
  ballot as completed after a single entry, though you can still
  double-enter them if you wish, and will be notified of any mismatch.

**Show entry names not codes on ballot manual entry** - Toggle to allow
entry names, rather than codes, on judge ballot entry screen.

**Show school codes on ballot manual entry** - Toggle to allow codes,
rather than entry names, on judge ballot entry screen.

**Index ballot screen by entry codes, not by judges** - This allows the
ballot entry screen to be organized based on entry codes rather than by
judge names.

**Include elims on pairing in round totals** - This controls whether or
not the pairing will include elims in the round totals as the tournament
progresses.

### Ballot Options

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Judges_-_Tabbing_-_Ballot_Options.png" title="Settings_-_Judges_-_Tabbing_-_Ballot_Options.png" />

All toggle buttons under this heading allows you to specifically tailor
ballots for speech and Congress at your tournament.

## Ratings

### Strikes, judging ratings, mutually-preferred judging

<img src="/screenshots/Strikes,_Judging_and_Prefs.png" title="Strikes,_Judging_and_Prefs.png" />

**Judge registration deadline** - Allows you to set a deadline for
judges to be entered in your tournament if you want that deadline to be
earlier than the tournament one.

**Prefs open** - Allows you to set the date and time coaches can begin
to complete judge preferences.

**Prefs due** - Allows you to set the date and time that judge
preferences close.

### Registration Settings

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Judges_-_Ratings-_Registration_settings.png" title="Settings_-_Judges_-_Ratings-_Registration_settings.png" />

**No prefs until judge obligations met** - Toggle if you want to prevent
schools, that haven't met their judge obligations, from completing
prefs.

**Ask for judge paradigms during registration** - Toggle if you want to
allow schools to enter missing judge paradigms when completing
registration.

**No prefs unless all judges have paradigms** - Toggle if you want to
prevent schools that have judges who are missing paradigms, from
completing prefs.

**Judges may self-identify as diversity enhancing** - Toggle to allow
judges to mark themselves as diversity enhancing.

**Free Strikes don't meet judge obligations** - Toggle to prevent free
strikes (ex: first year outs or others you may set) from countering
toward pref judge obligations.

**First year out judges are free strikes** - Toggle to make sure all
first year out judges are free strikes on pref sheets.

**Do not pref free strikes** - Toggle to make sure coaches cannot pref
those identified as free strikes.

**Pref/strike pool** - This allows you to select which judge pools that
prefs and strikes will apply to.

### Conflicts

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Judges_-_Ratings-_Conflicts.png" title="Settings_-_Judges_-_Ratings-_Conflicts.png" />

**Enter conflicts separately** - Toggle to allow coaches to enter judge
conflicts separately from prefs.

### Strikes

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Judges_-_Ratings-_Strikes.png" title="Settings_-_Judges_-_Ratings-_Strikes.png" />

**School-wide strikes/scratches** - Allows you to set a maximum number
of judges who can be rated as strikes by a school.

**Per-entry strikes/scratches** - Allows you to set a maximum number of
judges who can be rated as strikes by an entry.

### Mutually Preferred Judging

<img src="/screenshots/MPJ_Choices.png" title="MPJ_Choices.png" />

**Pref Method**

- MPJ Tiers (by whole judge) - This MPJ method allows you to rank judges
  based on pref tiers that the tournament sets. However, prefs are based
  upon the total rounds judge are entered for rather than by round.

- MPJ Tiers (by round) - This MPJ method allows you to rank judges based
  on pref tiers that the tournament sets. Common tiers in this method
  are 6-tiers or 9-tiers with the lowest tier being set as strikes. This
  is the most common method used at the high school level.

- MPJ Ordinals - This MPJ method allows you to rank every judge in the
  field from 1-the total number of judges in the field). This is the
  most common method used at the college level, with more high school
  tournaments using this method.

- Whole Number Caps - This MPJ method allows you to rank judges using a
  particular numerical cap you have chosen each judge category.

**Extra 1s = less 2s, etc** - Toggle this to allow coaches to rank more
judges in the top tier and less in lower tiers as long as tier rankings
are cumulative to the total required.

### Other Ratings

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Judges_-_Ratings-_Other_Ratings.png" title="Settings_-_Judges_-_Ratings-_Other_Ratings.png" />

**Ask volunteers to rate themselves** - Toggle to allow volunteer judges
to rate themselves based upon a scale that the tournament sets up.

**Ask coaches to rate their judges** - Toggle to allow coaches to rate
the judges that they provide to the tournament.

**Use tab room ratings for judge assignments** - Toggle to allow your
tournament to use general tab room ratings instead of setting your own
MPJ method.

**IE: only use ratings for elims** - Toggle to allow speech events to
use ratings in the elimination rounds (rarely, if ever, used).

## Shifts

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Judges_-_Shifts.png" title="Settings_-_Judges_-_Shifts.png" />

**Name** - This is where you add each day of the tournament for which
you will allow time shifts.

**Type** - This allows you to choose the type of shift you will use for
your tournament. Shifts marked 'Signup' will be made visible on a public
judge signup sheet. Shifts marked 'Strike' will be shown to registering
coaches so they can limit their judges' availability. Shifts marked
'Both' will be shown on the public judge signup sheet and to registering
coaches.

**Fee** - This is where you set the amount that each school is charged
if the school is under its judge burden during the requested time shift.

**Timespan** - This is where you will set the times, for each day of the
tournament, when you will allow judges to be unavailable.

## Pools

<img src="/screenshots/Registration_Judge_Pools_Tab.png" title="Registration_Judge_Pools_Tab.png" />

**Pool Name** - This is where you create labels for specific pools in
each judge category. For example, you have a Policy judge category. You
may choose to create a label for 'Policy Elims' or 'Policy
Quarterfinals.'

**Standby** - If checked, the particular pool is designated as a standby
pool for a particular round.

**On Web** - If checked, the particular pool is posted publicly on
Tabroom.com

**On Dash** - If checked, the particular pool will be visible on the
dashboard of each judge in that pool.

**Registrants assign Judges to pools** - If checked, registering coaches
will be able to add their judges to any of the registration judge pools
as they are signing up for the tournament.

**Site** - This will allow you to set the site where a particular pool
will be used if you have different events at distinct buildings or
locations.

## Messages

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Judges_-_Messages.png" title="Settings_-_Judges_-_Messages.png" />

**Judge Post-Registration Email** - This is where you send messages to
judges once they have registered. Only judges with linked Tabroom
accounts will get these emails.

**Diversity Policy** - This is where you set and share any diversity
policy for your tournament. This will be visible on judges' accounts
when they self-identify as diversity enhancing and on pref sheets.

**Conflict Policy** - This is where you set and share particular
tournament policies related to judge conflicts. This will be visible on
judge signup sheets where they register conflicts and on pref sheets.
