---
title: Settings - Website
slug: website
---

## Standard Pages

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Website_-_Standard_Pages.png" title="Settings_-_Website_-_Standard_Pages.png" />

**Main Page** - This text will be the first thing anyone sees when they
click on your tournament website. A welcome letter, a tournament
invitation, and other critical details are appropriate for this page.

**Field Reports** - This text will appear next to a side menu which
contains links to the field reports of the events at your tournament
which you have chosen to publish. Field reports will publish the names,
schools, and states of the students entered in a given event. It will
not publish the names of students on waitlists, or students who have
been dropped. Field reports will not show up anymore after a tournament
has concluded.

**Judge Lists** - This text will appear next to the listings of judges
on the public website of your tournament. That listing will also contain
lists of judges by state & school and links to their paradigms, if any.

**Postings** - This text will appear next to a side menu which contains
all the postings & schematics you have chosen to make public, when users
first click on the Postings tab of the tournament. You can use it to
make tournament announcements important to the initial stages of the
tournament (like W-9 forms, maps, Congress legislation, etc), or
messages prior to when elimination rounds are announced.

## Web Pages

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Website_-_Custom_Pages.png" title="Settings_-_Website_-_Custom_Pages.png" />

To add a new page, click the "Add New Web Page" link on the sidebar.
Then, fill out a (short) Title, choose whether the page is
published/visible, and fill out some text. There is no way to delete a
custom page after adding it - if you don't want it to be visible, just
set "Published" to No.

## Postings

### Field Reports

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Website_-_Field_Reports.png" title="Settings_-_Website_-_Field_Reports.png" />

Field Reports are lists of who has entered your tournament in a given
event. Click the "Field Reports" link, and then you can toggle whether
events have published fields by using the Publish/Unpublish button for
that event.

### Upload Files/Postings

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Website_-_upload_file.png" title="Settings_-_Website_-_upload_file.png" />

You can also post any arbitrary file/posting that you want to make
available to participants, such as event-specific instructions, a
restaurant guide, etc. Click the "Upload Files/Postings" link on the
sidebar, choose a file, and click Save.
