---
title: Entries - Judges
slug: judges
---

## Judge Categories

<img src="/screenshots/Entries_-_Judges.png" title="Entries_-_Judges.png" />

**Groups** - Allows switching between judge groups assigned to certain
events.

### Check Judging Burdens

<img src="/screenshots/Entries_-_Judges_-_Check_Judging_Burdens.png"
title="Entries_-_Judges_-_Check_Judging_Burdens.png" />

Displays how much judging a school owes in a given event. The columns
are sortable.

### Menu Options

<img src="/screenshots/Entries_-_Judges_-_Category_-_Buttons.png"
title="Entries_-_Judges_-_Category_-_Buttons.png" />

**Roster** - List of all the judges in an event.

**Conflict List** - Displays conflict information for each judge.

**Conflict Sheets** - Printout to allow judges to mark conflicts in
person instead of digitally. Will produce a document for each judge in
an event.

**Time Block Totals** - Printout that shows the total amount of time
blocked rounds, in prelims and elims, for all judges that requested
them.

**Dance Cards** - Printout for each judge that lists their judging
assignments.

**Rounds Judged** - Display that shows each judge, their obligation,
number of prelims judged, number of elims judged, total rounds judged
and which rounds they were.

**Seasonal Totals** - Displays how many rounds a judge has judged on
Tabroom in a given academic year. Clicking Record shows a more detailed
record of those rounds and the judge's paradigm.

### Category Grid

<img src="/screenshots/Entries_-_Judges_-_Category_-_Grid.png"
title="Entries_-_Judges_-_Category_-_Grid.png" />

**Notes** - Shows any judge notes for a particular judge

**ADA** - Indicates whether the judge needs ADA accommodations

**Act** - Indicates whether a judge's Tabroom account is active

**Chain Link** - Signifies whether a judge has a linked Tabroom account
or not.

**Bell** - Indicates whether a judge has enabled Tabroom web browser
notifications

### Online Ballots

<img src="/screenshots/Entries_-_Judges_-_Category_-_online_ballots.png"
title="Entries_-_Judges_-_Category_-_online_ballots.png" />

**Link Judges to Online Accounts** - Allows for entering emails to
unlinked judges to facilitate online balloting etc.

**Judge Decision Times** - Displays each judge and the average time it
takes them to make a decision at that tournament.
