---
title: Coaches
slug: coaches
---

As a coach or director, you will use Tabroom to do things like manage
your school's account, maintain your student roster, register for
tournaments, and view school-wide results.

If you just want to know how to register for a tournament, see the
section on [Registration](/registration).

When your Tabroom account is linked as the administrator for a school,
you will see a set of tabs when you log-in that correspond to the main
school admin functions:

<img src="/screenshots/coach_menu.png" title="coach_menu.png" width="400" />

This section of the manual will explain how to use each of these tabs.

## School Setup

Before you can access your school's student roster, tournament
registrations, etc. you must first either create a new school (also
known as a chapter), or link your Tabroom account to the pre-existing
school account.

Each school can have multiple Tabroom accounts linked as an
administrator for that school, for example if you have multiple coaches.
Similarly, any Tabroom account can be given administrator access to
multiple different schools, for example if you coach multiple programs
but want to maintain separate student rosters.

### Linking To A Pre-Existing School

Odds are good that your school has already been created in Tabroom and
linked to someone's account. Instead of creating a new school, which
results in confusing duplicates, you should instead attempt to get
access to the pre-existing school. This will also save you the work of
recreating things like student/judge rosters from scratch and will
ensure that your school's tournament results maintain continuity.

If you are a new coach, you should see if the previous coach can give
your account access to your school in Tabroom. If that's not possible,
you can contact us at **help@tabroom.com** for help getting access.

**IMPORTANT NOTE:** If you are a student trying to register for a
tournament, you should NOT create a new school just to sign yourself
up - you should instead ask your director/coach for access to your
school's tabroom account and register from the main school account.

If you are a previous coach trying to give someone else access to your
school, see the section below on [Controlling Access To A
School](#controlling-access-to-a-school)

### Creating A School

If your school doesn't exist in Tabroom yet, you'll need to create it.
After logging in, click the link for "Create a new school/team" in the
sidebar:

<img src="/screenshots/Coaches_-_Your_Account.png" title="Coaches_-_Your_Account.png"
width="300" />

Then, fill out the required information such as School Name, State, etc.
If you have a National Speech & Debate chapter number, or a variety of
other school ID numbers, you can put them in here to ensure proper
tracking. When done, press Save School Info.

<img src="/screenshots/coaches_-_create_new_school_1.png"
title="coaches_-_create_new_school_1.png" width="500" />

<img src="/screenshots/coaches_-_create_new_school_1.png"
title="coaches_-_create_new_school_1.png" width="500" />

If a school already exists in Tabroom with a similar name, you will see
a warning that says "THAT INSTITUTION ALREADY EXISTS!"

If you need help getting access to an existing school, email [help@tabroom.com](mailto:help@tabroom.com). If you're sure
you need to create a new school, check the "Confirm duplication" box:

<img src="/screenshots/user_chapter_create-confirm.png"
title="user_chapter_create-confirm.png" width="400" />

Once your school is created, you should see a welcome message telling
you what to do next - each of the suggested steps is covered in this
manual in detail:

<img src="/screenshots/user_chapter_chapter-welcome.png"
title="user_chapter_chapter-welcome.png" width="500" />

## School Settings

To make changes to your school name, coach access, etc. you will use the
Settings tab:

<img src="/screenshots/coaches_-_settings.png" title="coaches_-_settings.png"
width="600" />

**Name** – This is where you'll enter the official name of the school.

**Level** – Select the highest level for which you'll have competitors.

**Street Address** – The official street address for the school.

**City** – The city where the school is located.

**State** – The state where the school is located.

**Country** – The country the school is located.

**ZIP** – The zip code the school is located in.

**Coach Names** – All school coaches/advisors should be listed here.
Each name should be separated with a comma.

Entries may enter their own prefs – Enable this feature if you will
allow students to enter their own judge preferences (MPJ) and/or
strikes.

**NSDA School ID** – The NSDA membership ID for the school. If you do
not know your NSDA membership ID please consult your NSDA account at
speechanddebate.org or email info@speechanddebate.org.

**Nat'l Center for Education Statistics ID** – The National Center for
Education Statistics ID associated with your school. This data only
applies to public schools. If you do not know your ID, please search for
it here: https://nces.ed.gov/ccd/schoolsearch/

**College Board (CEEB) Number** – The CEEB number is a unique
identification number assigned to high schools and colleges by the
College Board. If you do not know your number, please search for it
here:
https://collegereadiness.collegeboard.org/k-12-school-code-search
NAUDL Affiliated School – Only enable this checkbox if you are a member
school of the National Association for Urban Debate Leagues.

### Controlling Access To A School

To edit who has access to your school's account in Tabroom, go to the
"Access" tab and enter the tabroom.com email of the advisor that should
be added to the account and click "Grant." Each adviser must have a
tabroom.com account to be associated with a school.

<img src="/screenshots/coaches_-_access.png" title="coaches_-_access.png"
width="500" />

Once you add advisors to the account, you will see a list of Tabroom
accounts with access to your school ("chapter"). You have two options
for providing any advisor account permissions:

**Full Access** – This option allows you to assign an advisor complete
access over the school's account.

**Prefs Only** – This option limits the advisor's account to only allow
them access to judge preferences (MPJ) and strikes data for a school.
This option should be given to advisors that serve in a part time role
and don't need full administrative access.

**How to remove an account** – Click the red trash can button next to an
account to remove an advisor's access from the school. Note that you
can't remove the last/only account from a school - so you would need to
add another account first.

### Allowing Pref Entry

You can grant specific Tabroom accounts access to your school for the
purposes of prefs entry, as explained above. Or, you can let entries
fill our prefs themselves by checking the option on the Settings tab for
"Entries may enter their own prefs." As long as you have linked entries
on your Student Roster to a tabroom account, they will be able to access
their own prefs, but not the rest of the school's.

### Administering Multiple Schools

If your Tabroom account is listed as the administrator for more than one
school simultaneously, you will see a list under "Institutions" in the
sidebar on your account dashboard:

<img src="/screenshots/coaches_-_instituions.png" title="coaches_-_instituions.png"
width="300" />

Before editing your rosters, entering a tournament, etc. make sure you
have selected the appropriate school by clicking on it - this will make
it your "active" school for the rest of the school administration tabs.

## Competitor Roster

Before registering for a tournament, you must add students to your
student roster. When you first go to the Competitors tab, your roster
will be empty:

You can add students to your roster manually, import them from your NSDA
account, or import them from a file.

### Adding Students Manually

Click the "Add a new student" link on the sidebar:

<img src="/screenshots/coaches_-_competitor_roster.png"
title="coaches_-_competitor_roster.png" width="350" />

There are three options to add students to a school roster:

**1. Find a student w/ a Tabroom login** – You can manually enter a
student tabroom.com email into this field to add them to your student
roster. This will require the student to have a tabroom.com account
setup prior to adding them.

<img src="/screenshots/Screen_Shot_2023-03-11_at_3.40.28_PM.png"
title="Screen_Shot_2023-03-11_at_3.40.28_PM.png" width="500" />

**2. Create a new student (without a Tabroom.com account)** – If a
student does not have a tabroom.com account, you can manually enter
their information in the provided fields. Make sure your information is
accurate. Enter the 4-digit graduation date and make sure it is
accurate. Accounts with graduation dates in the past will be retired and
not show on your entries dropdown menu to register the student for a
tournament. The NSDA ID and Email fields do not automatically create
accounts for the student and/or link them to their student records in
tabroom.com or speechanddebate.org.

<img src="/screenshots/Screen_Shot_2023-03-11_at_3.45.13_PM.png"
title="Screen_Shot_2023-03-11_at_3.45.13_PM.png" width="350" />

**2a. Competitors requesting online access** – Once you manually add a
student to your roster, it will allow them to request access later once
they have completed the setup of their tabroom.com account. Once a
competitor requests access, you will receive an email notifying you of
the request and the "competitors" tab will be red once you login to
tabroom.com. To link the competitor, you will need to approve their
account by selecting the green check mark. If you do not want to allow
the competitor to link to their account or someone is linking to the
wrong account, select the red X and it will deny them access. We suggest
always allowing students to link to their competitor records to allow
them access to the full benefits of tabroom.com, including access to
their past, present, and future tournament data and results.

<img src="/screenshots/Screen_Shot_2023-03-11_at_3.46.53_PM.png"
title="Screen_Shot_2023-03-11_at_3.46.53_PM.png" width="350" />

**Competitors requesting online access** – If you have manually added a
student to tabroom.com Make sure to give each of your students a 4-digit
graduation date, like "2018," and not just two-digits. You can also fill
out additional information, such as diet preferences and gender. When
you're done entering all your students, you can return to your student
roster by using the link on the sidebar.

### Adding Students From A File

To make it easier to add large numbers of students to your roster at
once, you can use the "Import From Spreadsheet" option in the sidebar
instead.

This will give you a form to choose the file to import:

<img src="/screenshots/coaches_-_add_new_student_-_imports.png"
title="coaches_-_add_new_student_-_imports.png" width="500" />

Your file must be saved as a ".csv" comma-delimited file. You can
download a sample file to fill out on the upload page. While it is
possible to create an upload file manually, it is much easier to use
this template, fill out the names and other information, then save and
upload the file - just make sure your spreadsheet program doesn't change
the file format.

### Managing Your Student Roster

#### Student Info

Once you have added students to your roster, you will see them in a list
on the Students tab:

<img src="/screenshots/competitor_list.png" title="competitor_list.png"
width="600" />

**Record** – Allows you to see the individual tournament results for the
competitor. Only tournaments that have posted public results will be
visible.

**First, Middle, Last** – Name of the competitor that will be visible on
tabroom.com. Clicking any of these names will allow you to edit the full
student record, including linking them to their tabroom.com account.

**Account** – Allows you to see if a competitor is already linked to
tabroom.com. If they are, their email will appear in that field. If they
are not, it will be blank.

**Points** – Shows a competitor's career NSDA points. A competitor must
be linked to their NSDA account via speechanddebate.org for these points
to show.

**Districts** – Shows if a competitor is eligible for districts. A "Y"
will appear if the competitor is eligible.

**Novice** – Toggle this switch to a green "Y" if the competitor is in
their first year of competition and considered a novice. Novice is
turned off for all competitors by default.

**Retired** – Toggle to a red "Y" if the competitor has graduated and is
no longer competing for your school.

#### Graduated Students

<img src="/screenshots/Screen_Shot_2023-03-15_at_9.19.51_PM.png"
title="Screen_Shot_2023-03-15_at_9.19.51_PM.png" width="500" />

You can toggle whether to show or hide "inactive competitors" by
selecting the red box at the top of your competitors' screen. You can
use this feature if you know a student should be on your roster. It is
likely they were automatically graduated and made inactive. You will
need to reactivate them using this option.

#### Remove Duplicates

If you accidentally created duplicates on your student roster, you could
easily remove them by using the "de-duplicate students" link on the
sidebar. If any duplicates are found, you will be given the choice to
merge them. Please be sure that you're merging duplicate students,
rather than two different students with the same name. There are times
when you will receive a message saying the graduation dates are too far
apart. To fix this issue, change the graduation date for the duplicated
student and run the merge process again.

<img src="/screenshots/deduplicate_students.png" title="deduplicate_students.png"
width="500" />

#### Dietary Preferences

Your student roster is a convenient place to keep track of your
student's dietary preferences, which also makes it easy for tournaments
to access that information. You can see all of this information in one
place with the "Dietary preferences" link in the sidebar:

<img src="/screenshots/diet_notes.png" title="diet_notes.png" width="500" />

### Linking Your National Speech & Debate Association Roster

Linking your Tabroom student roster to your account with the National
Speech & Debate Association allows you to automatically import your
students, and also enables "auto-pointing," where a student's honor
points can be posted automatically. To take advantage of this, click the
"Students" tab to view your Student Roster. Then, click the link on the
right for "Connect to NSDA Auto Pointing:"

<img src="/screenshots/linking_nsda_member.png" title="linking_nsda_member.png"
width="500" />

First, you'll need to give Tabroom access to your Points Application
account with the National Speech & Debate Association. Enter the
username and password you use to log in to the Points Application
(points.speechanddebate.org), and then type the "confirmation phrase" in
the on-screen instructions. This is to prevent accidental linking to the
wrong school.

If successful, you will see your list of linked Points App logins (with
the option to "Unlink" if you made a mistake). You'll then need to
select your NSDA school from the dropdown menu (just in case your Points
App login is attached to more than one school), and click "Link to
NSDA."

Tabroom will then show you the list of current students on your Tabroom
roster (if any), and ask you to link each student with the correct entry
from your roster with the National Speech & Debate Association. This is
to ensure that each student is matched with the correct merit number.
Using the dropdown menu for each student, choose a name, or "Do not
link" if a student is not a member of the National Speech & Debate
Association. You must also check the "Confirm" box next to each student.

Once you have linked students, you will see them appear on this screen
with their Tabroom and NSDA roster information, current number of honor
society points, along with the option to delink them from their Tabroom
entry.

Once the initial linking of your Tabroom school to your National Speech
& Debate Association account is done, you can import any students on
your NSDA roster to Tabroom by choosing the "Import NSDA Roster to
Tabroom.com" option on the sidebar.

This will show you a list of students from your NSDA roster that are
available to import (with the option to exclude any you don't want).

After you've imported your students, you can verify that they're linked
correctly by clicking their name from your student roster. Their "NSDA
Merit Number" will be displayed at the bottom.

That's it - once a tournament is complete, you should see the points
appear on the NSDA Points Application in the "Autopost" section of your
school profile, where you can confirm them and choose a coach to assign
coach points.

Note that for points to be autoposted, you'll need to have your rosters
correctly linked prior to Tabroom processing that tournament's results.
That is, autoposting points isn't retroactive - if you didn't link
rosters prior to a tournament, you won't see those points.

Also note that for the time being, Congress points are not autoposted
and will need to be input manually.

For auto-pointing to work correctly, the tournament director should
opt-in by matching up their tournament events on Tabroom with the
appropriate Association events in their tournament settings. If you want
to ensure you get credit for points at a tournament you're attending,
make sure to tell the tournament director you'd like them to do so.

## Judge Roster

The judge roster works very similar to the student roster. You can click
the "Add a new judge" link in the sidebar, or if your judge roster is
empty, the form will appear automatically:

<img src="/screenshots/Judge_Roster.png" title="Judge_Roster.png" width="300" />

You can add judges by their Tabroom account email, or manually enter
their information and click the "Save Judge" button. You can link judges
on your roster to their Tabroom accounts later if you wish.

If you want to add a large number of judges at once, you can also use
the "Import from Spreadsheet" option, which is found in the sidebar on
your Students tab (not the Judge tab). For more information, see the
section on [Adding Students From A
File](#adding-students-from-a-file) above. Make sure you use
the "Judge" template, instead of the "Student" template.

Once you have added judges to your roster, they will appear in a list:

<img src="/screenshots/active_judges.png" title="active_judges.png" width="600" />

Clicking on a judge's first or last name will let you edit their
information. You can also toggle a judge between active/inactive to keep
your roster easier to manage. You can select whether to see active or
inactive judges on the sidebar.

If you accidentally created duplicates on your judge roster, you can
easily remove them by using the "Deduplicate judges" link on the
sidebar. If any duplicates are found, you will be given the choice to
merge them:

**First, Last** – Name of the judge that will be visible on tabroom.com.
Clicking any of these names will allow you to edit the full judge
record, including linking them to their tabroom.com account.

**Judged** – Indicates the number of tournaments they've judged on
tabroom.com. This record will only reflect the tournaments their linked
account was attached to and not other tournaments where they may have
judged prior to having an account.

**Phone** – Indicates the phone number they have registered on their
tabroom.com account.

**Linked To** – Indicates the tabroom.com linked account email.

**Inactive** – By default all judges are active. If a judge is no with
your program, toggle this to a red "Y" and they will be disabled from
your roster.

<img src="/screenshots/deduplicate_judges.png" title="deduplicate_judges.png"
width="500" />

To keep track of your judges dietary preferences, you can use the
"Dietary Restrictions" link on the right - it will take you to the same
page as for your student roster.

## Circuits

In order to register for a tournament, you must first join the
appropriate "circuit." All tournaments on tabroom must be part of a
"circuit" - to find out which circuit the tournament you're interested
in is a part of, look on the main [Calendar](/calendars).

Then, use the "Circuits" tab to join the circuit:

<img src="/screenshots/circuit_screen.png" title="circuit_screen.png" width="600" />

First, select the circuit you want to join from the dropdown. Then,
choose whether to join for "Tournaments Only" or "Full Membership."

Choose "Tournaments Only" if you want to register for tournaments, but
don't want circuit emails or to be a dues paying member. Some circuits
are run entirely on a tournament-only basis, such as the US National
Circuit (HS).

"Full Membership" means you will be able to register for tournaments,
and will receive emails about the circuit. You may also be billed for
membership dues. This is best for joining a state or local circuit that
uses Tabroom to manage its membership.

Once you have joined a circuit, your Circuits tab will change to show
you the list of tournaments your school is a part of, and will give you
the option to leave a circuit.

## School Results

If your account is the admin for your school, you can access results for
your entire team.

### Accessing Results

From your account dashboard, you can use the Results tab to see a list
of tournaments with available results:

<img src="/screenshots/results_screen.png" title="results_screen.png" width="600" />

Selecting the blue "results" button will give you access to a list of
reports that were produced by the tournament administrators.

<img src="/screenshots/results_menu.png" title="results_menu.png" width="300" />

**Tournament Stats** – Provides you a general overview of participation
at the tournament.

**School Dashboard** – Returns you to the live tournament dashboard for
your team. This is where you can see all the live results for each round
that all your competitors participated in at the tournament.

**Show Entry Roster** – Displays the complete school entry from the
tournament.

**Show Ballots** – Displays the available ballots for each entry.
Selecting the blue eye icon will reveal the decisions and comments from
each round a competitor/team participated in at the tournament.

**Show Results** – Displays the individual results, including record,
points, and individual round results for each student. Only the data
will show on this report without comments. Speaker award data for each
competitor will also show on this screen.

**Print Invoice/Receipt** – Displays your tournament invoice and all
payment information in a printable PDF format.

**Full Results** – Displays the full public results from each event.
This report will show the round results, speaker awards, and final
places for all competitors registered for that event.

**Print Ballots/Results** – Displays the same information as above, only
in a printable PDF format.

<img src="/screenshots/results_menu.png" title="results_menu.png" width="300" />

### Accessing Invoices/Receipts

Print Invoice/Receipt displays a breakdown of your registration costs,
fines, and whether you've paid or owe money in a printable PDF format.