---
title: Paneling - Judges
slug: judges
---

## Mass Assign

<img src="/screenshots/Paneling_-_Judges_-_Mass_Assign.png"
title="Paneling_-_Judges_-_Mass_Assign.png" />

Mass Assign should only be used if you are assigning judges in Congress,
speech events, or round robins.

## Pools

### Create new pool

<img src="/screenshots/Paneling_-_Judges_-_Pools_-_Create_new_pools.png"
title="Paneling_-_Judges_-_Pools_-_Create_new_pools.png" />

**Pool Name** - Display name for a given judge pool.

**Show pools to judges online** - Option to display judge pools to
judges.

**Publish judges on web** - Option to display judge pools publicly.

**Use as standby** - Marks a judge pool standby to not place them first
in a given round.

**Site** - Allows you to select the site where the event will take
place. The site can be your school, a building on a campus or NSDA
Campus rooms.

## Pool Judges

<img src="/screenshots/Paneling_-_Judges_-_Pools_-_Pool_Judges.png"
title="Paneling_-_Judges_-_Pools_-_Pool_Judges.png" />

Clicking a judge name on the right hand side will move them into the
selected judge pool.

### Pool, Round, Auto-populate

<img src="/screenshots/Paneling_-_Judges_-_Pools_-_Pool_Judges_-_options.png"
title="Paneling_-_Judges_-_Pools_-_Pool_Judges_-_options.png" />

**Category** - Judge categories that you in the Settings/Judge tab.

**Pool** - Menu to select from the judge pools that you created in the
Pools tab.

**Add a round** - Menu to select what rounds the judge pool is used for.

**Auto-populate** - Menu of options to mass pull judges into a judge
pool based on the criterion you select.

## Pool Rounds

<img src="/screenshots/Pool_Rounds_Tab.png" title="Pool_Rounds_Tab.png"
width="400" />

Alternate screen that allows you to assign judge pools to certain rounds
of a given event instead of assigning rounds to a certain judge pool.
You can also set how many flights an event round with have as well as
the number of judges for each round of the event here.

## Chart

<img src="/screenshots/Paneling_-_Judges_-_Pools_-_Chart.png"
title="Paneling_-_Judges_-_Pools_-_Chart.png" />

Displays the judge name, school, their round assignments, and how many
rounds they have judged.

## Availability

<img src="/screenshots/Paneling_-_Judges_-_Pools_-_Availability.png"
title="Paneling_-_Judges_-_Pools_-_Availability.png" />

Displays the total number of judges available for a given round. You can
toggle between events in this screen.

## Activate

<img src="/screenshots/Paneling_-_Judges_-_Pools_-_Activate.png"
title="Paneling_-_Judges_-_Pools_-_Activate.png" />

Allows you to mark judges as active for placement or not by toggling
between Y or N.
