---
title: Paneling - Rooms
slug: rooms
---

## Mass Assign

<img src="/screenshots/Paneling_-_Rooms_-_Mass_Assign.png"
title="Paneling_-_Rooms_-_Mass_Assign.png" />

If you didn't auto-assign rooms during the paneling step, you can assign
rooms to a speech event using the "Rooms" menu option, and then choosing
a timeslot on the sidebar. The "Mass Assign" tab will show you a listing
of current assignments, and the option to auto-assign the rooms in that
timeslot

## Pools

<img src="/screenshots/Paneling_-_Rooms_-_Pools.png"
title="Paneling_-_Rooms_-_Pools.png" />

To create a room pool, click the "Create New Room Pool" link on the
sidebar and then give it a name.

This screen displays a room pool, rounds assigned to that pool, options
to add rounds to that pool and an option to add all rounds from a given
event.

## Pool Rooms

<img src="/screenshots/Paneling_-_Rooms_-_Pool_Rooms.png"
title="Paneling_-_Rooms_-_Pool_Rooms.png" />

Clicking a room on the right adds the room to the selected room pool.

### Side Menu

<img src="/screenshots/Paneling_-_Rooms_-_Pool_Rooms_-_Options.png"
title="Paneling_-_Rooms_-_Pool_Rooms_-_Options.png" />

**Clone another pool** - This copies all rooms from one pool to another.

**Add Round** - This adds the selected round to the room pool.

**Sites** - Tournament sites/locations, impacts the rooms that are
displayed.

**Add a new room** - Saves a new room to the selected site.

**Pattern Add** - Allows you to create a particular pattern use of rooms
based on the event.

**Import from CSV** - Option to upload room pool information via a
spreadsheet.

## Chart

<img src="/screenshots/Paneling_-_Rooms_-_Pool_Rooms_-_Chart.png"
title="Paneling_-_Rooms_-_Pool_Rooms_-_Chart.png" />

The "Chart" tab shows you a list of all rooms for the Timeslot and Site
you choose.

## Reports

<img src="/screenshots/Paneling_-_Rooms_-_Pool_Rooms_-_Reports.png"
title="Paneling_-_Rooms_-_Pool_Rooms_-_Reports.png" />

The "Report" tab shows you information about individual rooms, including
which rounds are scheduled in that room and which room pools the room is
in.

## Reservations

<img src="/screenshots/Paneling_-_Rooms_-_Pool_Rooms_-_Reservations.png"
title="Paneling_-_Rooms_-_Pool_Rooms_-_Reservations.png" />

Under Paneling - Rooms, the "Reservations" tab lets you assign a room to
a particular judge, for example if a judge has a mobility issue and
needs to stay in the same room all day. Choose a judge category from the
sidebar, and then select a room to assign the judge.

## Utility

<img src="/screenshots/Paneling_-_Rooms_-_Pool_Rooms_-_Utility.png"
title="Paneling_-_Rooms_-_Pool_Rooms_-_Utility.png" />

For online tournaments, allows you to create rooms that are availble to
specific sub-sections of the tournament.
