---
title: Judges
slug: judges
---

[Printable One-Page Guide to
Judging](/uploads/online-ballots.pdf) (How to
use online ballots, link accounts, and submit results and comments)

If you are a judge, you can use online ballots, update your paradigm,
enter your competitor/school conflicts, or offer yourself for hired
judging at a tournament.

In order to use many of these features, you must first "link" your
Tabroom account to your school's judge entry. See the section on [your
account](/account/your-account) for instructions on how to link your
account to a judge.

## Current Tournament Assignment and Ballots

Once you have linked your account to a judge entry, you can access your
current tournament assignment and ballots, and have enabled live updates
and online ballots.

To see your current ballots, log-in and go to your account dashboard by
clicking your username/email in the upper part of the page. If you have
any current ballots, you should see a list. Make sure to click "Enter
Ballot" or whichever text appears on screen to let the tournament know
that you're aware you're judging, arrive at your room, and/or the round
is set to begin.

<img src="/screenshots/Screen_Shot_2023-03-27_at_5.47.05_PM.png"
title="Screen_Shot_2023-03-27_at_5.47.05_PM.png" />

<img src="/screenshots/Screen_Shot_2023-03-27_at_6.01.40_PM.png"
title="Screen_Shot_2023-03-27_at_6.01.40_PM.png" />

**Upcoming** – displays tournaments you will be judging at in the
future.

**History** – displays tournaments you have judged at in the past.

**Standing Conflicts** – allows you to enter students and/or schools you
are conflicted from judging. How to complete this will be explained
below.

**Paradigm** – allows you to enter your judge paradigm/philosophy, which
will be publicly available for competitors to read before the
competition.

**Offer Hired Judging Rounds** – allows you to offer additional rounds
at tournaments you're not currently entered to judge at.

## Online Ballots

<img src="/screenshots/Screen_Shot_2023-03-24_at_12.51.43_PM.png"
title="Screen_Shot_2023-03-24_at_12.51.43_PM.png" width="400" />

**Judge** – Displays the judge's name. This should be your name.

**Round** – Displays the round you are assigned to judge.

**Room** – Displays the room should be judging in. If this is a
name/number, then it is an onsite location. If it is a blue camera, it
is a virtual competition space.

**Starts** – Displays the time the round is scheduled to start. The top
value displays the time in your time zone. The bottom value displays the
time in the tournament's time zone.

**Entries** – Displays the competitors/codes that should be in that
room.

**Start Button (Green)** – Press this button once you receive your
ballot, arrive at the room, and/or the round is set to begin.

<img src="/screenshots/Screen_Shot_2023-03-24_at_12.56.53_PM.png"
title="Screen_Shot_2023-03-24_at_12.56.53_PM.png" width="400" />

**Top Left** – Displays the onsite or virtual room you're assigned. If
it's a blue icon, it means this is a virtual room.

**Top Center** – Displays the name of the judge

**Top Right** – Displaces the event and round number of the assigned
debate. Be sure this matches the correct round you're currently judging
because some tournaments release more than one round at a time.

**Diversity Statement** – this is the default diversity and equity
statement on all NSDA ballots. Be sure to take the time to read it and
become informed on a judge's implicit bias.

**Points** – Displays the point scale for the tournament and what level
of sub points you can provide to each competitor. If you enter points
that fall outside of the range, you will not be allowed to submit your
ballot and an error message will appear.

**Side** – Displays who is the aff/pro/gov or neg/con/opp in each round.
In flip for sides debates if your ballot looks incorrect based on the
sides that are being debated, please refresh your ballot.

**Entry Code** – Names and/or Codes of the competitors in the room.
Double-check to ensure you have the right competitors before starting
your round.

**Points** – Enter the points you assign to each individual based on
this performance. Points are always enabled in each event.

**Winner** – Choose the winning competitor/team in the debate from the
dropdown menu.

**Side** – Choose the side of the winning competitor/team. Make sure it
corresponds to the team you chose in the dropdown menu.

**Low Point Win?** – Check this box if you intentionally meant to give
the winning team lower points than the losing team.

**Submit Ballot** – Select this option when you believe you've correctly
entered the information request above and are ready to submit your
decision. Below this box are instructions to help you complete your
ballot.

## Updating Your Paradigm

See the section on [paradigms](/public/paradigms) for information on
how to upload/update your paradigm.

## Entering Conflicts

Tabroom allows you to put in "standing" conflicts that will apply at any
tournament you enter as a judge. Conflicts are meant to reflect a
personal or professional relationship which means it is unfair for you
to judge the other person; such as a relative, or a former student. Do
NOT use conflicts against debaters you simply do not like, or the
tournament directors of tournaments you attend will likely get very
angry.

For the automatic conflict to work, the person you want to conflict
yourself against must have a Tabroom account.

From your account dashboard, click the link for "Standing Conflicts" on
the sidebar:

<img src="/screenshots/Screen_Shot_2023-03-27_at_6.11.39_PM.png"
title="Screen_Shot_2023-03-27_at_6.11.39_PM.png" width="650" />

You can then search for a person or school to conflict:

If any results are found, they will appear in a list next to the search
box. Just click the "Conflict" button next to the search result:

<img src="/screenshots/Screen_Shot_2023-03-27_at_6.15.28_PM.png"
title="Screen_Shot_2023-03-27_at_6.15.28_PM.png" width="500" />

Once you have added a conflict, they will appear in your "Individual or
Program Conflicts" list:

<img src="/screenshots/Screen_Shot_2023-03-27_at_6.18.02_PM.png"
title="Screen_Shot_2023-03-27_at_6.18.02_PM.png" width="500" />

To remove an existing conflict, click the trash can icon button next to
their name.

## Competitor Feedback

Competitor feedback can be found underneath your ballot. You should
always submit your ballot first and then fill out your reason for
decision and feedback for each competitor.

<img src="/screenshots/Screen_Shot_2023-03-24_at_12.56.53_PM.png"
title="Screen_Shot_2023-03-24_at_12.56.53_PM.png" width="700" />

**Reason for Decision** – Comments go to all competitors in the round.
You should summarize your reason for voting for one team over another.
Once complete, hit "save feedback" and proceed.

**Competitor Feedback** – Select the tab for the specific competitor you
wish to leave feedback for and enter it in the box. These comments can
only be seen by the competitor they are intended for. Once complete, hit
"save feedback" and proceed.

## Offer Hired Judging

Many tournaments use Tabroom to manage their hired judging. Note that
offering yourself as a judge does NOT mean you will automatically be
hired or paid - the tournament must still approve your offered rounds,
and then another attendee must claim them. You will not be paid for
unclaimed rounds. Tabroom will notify you as your hired rounds are
approved and claimed.

If you need to reduce your hired rounds after they have been claimed,
you must contact the program who claimed your rounds to reduce the
claim. It is not possible to reduce your claim yourself.

To offer yourself as a hired judge at an upcoming tournament with this
feature enabled, click the "Offer Hired Judging Rounds" link in the
Sidebar.

<img src="/screenshots/Screen_Shot_2023-03-27_at_6.27.30_PM.png"
title="Screen_Shot_2023-03-27_at_6.27.30_PM.png" width="350" />

You will see a list of upcoming tournaments, with an "+" button for each
one under the add column:

<img src="/screenshots/Screen_Shot_2023-03-27_at_6.32.52_PM.png"
title="Screen_Shot_2023-03-27_at_6.32.52_PM.png" width="600"
alt="Screen_Shot_2023-03-27_at_6.32.52_PM.png" />

After clicking the + button, you will see the screen below and you'll be
asked how many rounds you are offering:

<img src="/screenshots/Screen_Shot_2023-03-27_at_6.30.03_PM.png"
title="Screen_Shot_2023-03-27_at_6.30.03_PM.png" width="600" />

Fill out a number and click "Offer" - you will then be notified whenever
your rounds are approved or claimed.
