## Entry Manipulation

<figure>
<img src="Entries_-_Data_-_Entry_Manipulation.png"
title="Entries_-_Data_-_Entry_Manipulation.png" />
<figcaption>Entries_-_Data_-_Entry_Manipulation.png</figcaption>
</figure>

**Add new school** - Allows you to add a school to a tournament
manually, even after registration is closed.

**Empty schools** - Allows you to see a list of schools that have no
entries or judges entered in the tournament.

**Onsite Schools** - Allows you to mark a school as onsite or not.

**Link Students** - Allows you to enter emails for students so they are
linked to a Tabroom account.

**School Contacts** - Allows you to see a compiled list of all schools'
contact information.

**Drop TBAs** - Drops all TBA entries across the tournament.

**Delete TBAs** - Deletes TBA entries entirely from across the
tournament.

## Codes & Names

<figure>
<img src="Entries_-_Data_-_Codes_and_Names.png"
title="Entries_-_Data_-_Codes_and_Names.png" />
<figcaption>Entries_-_Data_-_Codes_and_Names.png</figcaption>
</figure>

After a tournament initially creates settings and schools have entered
the tournament, this screen allows you to manually manipulate the data
based on the categories above.

## Import/Export

<figure>
<img src="Entries_-_Data_-_Import_Export.png"
title="Entries_-_Data_-_Import_Export.png" />
<figcaption>Entries_-_Data_-_Import_Export.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Tabroom can import entry data (including schools and judges) from a
variety of sources, including the "Universal XML" format used by the
TRPC, CAT, and STA, as well as importing registration data from Joy of
Tournaments.

To import, select the option from the sidebar which matches the source
of your data, and follow the instructions to upload your data file.

## Reset Tournament

<figure>
<img src="Entries_-_Data_-_Reset.png"
title="Entries_-_Data_-_Reset.png" />
<figcaption>Entries_-_Data_-_Reset.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If necessary, you can also completely reset your tournament data using
the link on the sidebar. For obvious reasons, this shouldn't be done
once a tournament has started - once you've deleted everything, there's
no way to get the data back.