## Search Bar

<figure>
<img src="Entries_-_Schools.png" title="Entries_-_Schools.png" />
<figcaption>Entries_-_Schools.png</figcaption>
</figure>

To access a school's page, you select it from the dropdown menu.

## School Page

### General

![](Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page.png "Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page.png")
**General** - This tab lists contact info for the coach of the school,
school data and all individuals that currently has access to the
school's Tabroom account.

**Entries** - This tab shows a list of competitors from a school, and
their events, that are currently registered for a particular tournament.

**Judges** - This tab shows a list of judges from a school, and the
events they are registered in, for a particular tournament. This tab
will be red until you have entered or hired enough judges to cover your
school's entries.

**Money** - This tab shows how much money a school owes once registered
for a tournament. This tab will be red until you have paid all entry and
judge fees in full.

**Followers** - This tab allows you to add followers to your school's
tournament notifications.

**Notes** - This tab allows you add any notes relevant to your school
related to students, judges or the tournament.

**Waitlist** - This tab shows you all current entries from your school
that are waitlisted for the particular tournament.

#### <big>Money Information</big>

<figure>
<img src="Entries_-_School_-_Team_page_-_money_info.png"
title="Entries_-_School_-_Team_page_-_money_info.png" />
<figcaption>Entries_-_School_-_Team_page_-_money_info.png</figcaption>
</figure>

**Record a Payment** - Allows you to enter information for new payments
that have been made for a tournament.

**Amount** - Allows you to enter the check amount for your outstanding
balance for a tournament.

#### <big>School Data</big>

<figure>
<img src="Entries_-_schools_-_team_page_-_school_data.png"
title="Entries_-_schools_-_team_page_-_school_data.png" />
<figcaption>Entries_-_schools_-_team_page_-_school_data.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Information on a school's entry related to what NSDA chapter they are
in, who registered them, when the school was registered them and who
signed any relevant disclaimers related to the tournament.

#### <big>Status</big>

<figure>
<img src="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Status.png"
title="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Status.png" />
<figcaption>Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Status.png</figcaption>
</figure>

**Confirmed Onsite** - Toggle to mark a school as onsite/confirmed
registered for a tournament.

**Allow unpaid online registration** - Option to require fees be paid
before a school can register themselves online.

#### <big>Printouts</big>

<figure>
<img src="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Printouts.png"
title="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Printouts.png" />
<figcaption>Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Printouts.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Options for printing out specific elements of a school's entry. Each
button takes you to a different PDF.

#### <big>Required School Forms</big>

<figure>
<img src="entries_-_schools_-_team_page_-_required_school_forms.png"
title="entries_-_schools_-_team_page_-_required_school_forms.png" />
<figcaption>entries_-_schools_-_team_page_-_required_school_forms.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Tracks whether a school has uploaded required forms and allows you to
upload the forms manually

#### <big>Damage</big>

<figure>
<img src="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Damage.png"
title="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Damage.png" />
<figcaption>Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Damage.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Option to delete an entire school's entry (in all events) from a
tournament.

### <big>Entries</big>

<figure>
<img src="entries_-_schools_-_team_page_-_entries.png"
title="entries_-_schools_-_team_page_-_entries.png" />
<figcaption>entries_-_schools_-_team_page_-_entries.png</figcaption>
</figure>

**Add to** - Selects what event to add new entries to.

**New** - Dropdown of students on a school's roster to enter into a
given event.

**Add New Student** - Allows you to add a student's information if they
are not previously on a school's roster.

**Drop** - Option to drop an entry from a tournament.

**TBA Slots** - Entering a number and clicking save will result in that
many entries in a given event being added to the tournament, but with no
student names.

### <big>Judges</big>

#### <big>Judge Categories</big>

<figure>
<img src="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Judges_-_Judge_Categories.png"
title="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Judges_-_Judge_Categories.png" />
<figcaption>Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Judges_-_Judge_Categories.png</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure>
<img src="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Judges_-_Category_Screen.png"
title="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Judges_-_Category_Screen.png" />
<figcaption>Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Judges_-_Category_Screen.png</figcaption>
</figure>

**Judge Categories** - Toggle between events to see what judges a school
has entered in those events.

**Rounds** - How many preliminary rounds a judge is obligated for that
can be adjusted up or down.

**Trashcan** - Drops a judge from the tournament.

**Add Judge or Plus sign** - Adds a judge to that event for a given
school. Can be previously on the school's roster or not.

#### <big>Burden Adjustment</big>

<figure>
<img
src="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Judges_-_Burden_Adjustment.png"
title="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Judges_-_Burden_Adjustment.png" />
<figcaption>Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Judges_-_Burden_Adjustment.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Multiples a school's judge obligations by the selected percentage.

#### <big>Add Judge</big>

<figure>
<img src="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Judges_-_Add_Judge.png"
title="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Judges_-_Add_Judge.png" />
<figcaption>Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Judges_-_Add_Judge.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Allows entering a judge on a school's roster to a given event.

<figure>
<img
src="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Judges_-_Add_Judge_Not_on_Roster.png"
title="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Judges_-_Add_Judge_Not_on_Roster.png" />
<figcaption>Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Judges_-_Add_Judge_Not_on_Roster.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Information inputs to enter a judge not previously entered on a school's
Tabroom roster.

### Money

<figure>
<img src="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Money.png"
title="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Money.png" />
<figcaption>Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Money.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Displays charges and payments that will appear on a school's invoice.

#### Record Payments

<figure>
<img src="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Money_-_Record_Payments.png"
title="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Money_-_Record_Payments.png" />
<figcaption>Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Money_-_Record_Payments.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Allows entering new payments, their reason and their amount to a
school's invoice.

#### Invoices

<figure>
<img src="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Money_-_Invoices.png"
title="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Money_-_Invoices.png" />
<figcaption>Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Money_-_Invoices.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Options to modify a school's invoice and produce a new copy.

#### Discounts

<figure>
<img src="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Money_-_Discounts.png"
title="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Money_-_Discounts.png" />
<figcaption>Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Money_-_Discounts.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Allows adjustment to certain fees for a school by the selected discount
amount.

#### Add Charge

<figure>
<img src="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Money_-_Add_Charges.png"
title="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Money_-_Add_Charges.png" />
<figcaption>Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Money_-_Add_Charges.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Allows entering new charges, their reason and their amount to a school's
invoice.

### Followers

<figure>
<img src="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Contacts.png"
title="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Contacts.png" />
<figcaption>Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Contacts.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Option to add emails so that they receive updates about pairings and
judge assignments for a given school.

### Notes

<figure>
<img src="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Notes.png"
title="Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Notes.png" />
<figcaption>Entries_-_Schools_-_Team_Page_-_Notes.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Allows you to save notes about a school's entry for future reference.