Tabroom has a number of "Circuits" for different leagues or geographical
locations. Each of these circuits has one or more administrators, who
are responsible for approving tournaments on the circuit calendar,
communicating with member schools, and possibly using advanced features
such as bid tracking or membership dues.

This section of the manual is designed for circuit administrators - it's
not relevant for most users. If you want to learn how to join a circuit,
see the section on [School
Administration](School_Administration "wikilink") instead.

If your account is listed as a circuit administrator, then you will see
a list of circuits on the sidebar of your account dashboard:

<figure>
<img src="user_chapter_home-circuits.png"
title="user_chapter_home-circuits.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>user_chapter_home-circuits.png</figcaption>
</figure>

## Creating A Circuit

You can't, they're created by Tabroom and then an administrator is
designated to run them. If you would like a new circuit created on
Tabroom for your local league or region, email [mailto:
help@tabroom.com](mailto:_help@tabroom.com "wikilink").

## Approving Tournaments

If there are any active tournament approval requests, a notice will
appear on the sidebar under the relevant circuit:

<figure>
<img src="user_chapter_home-approve.png"
title="user_chapter_home-approve.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>user_chapter_home-approve.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Click the link for "Approve Tourn Requests" and you will be shown a list
of pending requests:

<figure>
<img src="user_circuit_approvals.png"
title="user_circuit_approvals.png" />
<figcaption>user_circuit_approvals.png</figcaption>
</figure>

For each request, you can "Approve" it, which will add the tournament to
your circuit calendar, "Delete" it, which will remove the tournament
from your circuit (but not delete it entirely), or click "Admin," which
will take you into the tournament settings as if you were the tournament
director.

## Edit a Circuit

To access the main circuit administration functions, click the name of
the circuit on the sidebar. This will give you a new set of options for
your circuit on the sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="user_circuit_index-sidebar.png"
title="user_circuit_index-sidebar.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>user_circuit_index-sidebar.png</figcaption>
</figure>

You can edit the main settings for the circuit by clicking the Edit
<Circuit> link.

### Circuit Details

The first set of options let you set the circuit details, such as name,
abbreviation, and location:

<figure>
<img src="user_circuit_index-name.png"
title="user_circuit_index-name.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>user_circuit_index-name.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Circuit Options

Below that, you can configure several options for your circuit:

<figure>
<img src="user_circuit_index-options.png"
title="user_circuit_index-options.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>user_circuit_index-options.png</figcaption>
</figure>

**Full Membership Tracking** - This will keep track of member schools,
including options for membership fees.

**Tournaments open to non-members** - If checked, allows schools outside
your circuit to enter tournaments listed in your circuit.

**Track Bids** - Gives you options to keep track of how many bids teams
in your circuit earn.

**Extended Student Demographics** - Lets you help track additional
information about students in your circuit.

**Extended Judge Demographics** - Lets you help track additional
information about judges in your circuit.

**Judge Training Certification** - Requires judges in your circuit to be
marked as certified, through whatever process your league uses.

**Use Regions** - Allows you to configure regions within your circuit.

**NCFL Specific Settings** - Not for local CFL's - don't use unless
you're actually the NCFL.

**NAUDL reporting options** - not for local UDL's - don't use unless
you're actually NAUDL.

### Circuit Administrators

At the bottom of the main circuit settings page, you can also control
which Tabroom accounts have access as a circuit administrator:

<figure>
<img src="user_circuit_index-admins.png"
title="user_circuit_index-admins.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>user_circuit_index-admins.png</figcaption>
</figure>

## Circuit Emails

Tabroom makes it easy to send an email to everyone in your circuit, or
subsets of people like particular tournament entrants.

### Send An Email

To send a new email, click the "Compose new email" link in the sidebar.
You can fill out a subject, and then select a group of recipients. You
can either choose "Send to all <Circuit> members" or choose a particular
set of tournament entrants:

<figure>
<img src="user_circuit_email-compose-recipients.png"
title="user_circuit_email-compose-recipients.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>user_circuit_email-compose-recipients.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Then, fill out the text of your email and click "Send Email:"

<figure>
<img src="user_circuit_email-compose-text.png"
title="user_circuit_email-compose-text.png" width="400" />
<figcaption>user_circuit_email-compose-text.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Email Archive

To see a list of emails that have been sent to the circuit, click the
"Email Archive" link on the sidebar: This will show you a list of emails
from the current season, which you can view with the "View" button:

<figure>
<img src="user_circuit_emails.png" title="user_circuit_emails.png"
width="400" />
<figcaption>user_circuit_emails.png</figcaption>
</figure>

To see emails from another season, use the drop-down list on the
sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="user_circuit_emails-past.png"
title="user_circuit_emails-past.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>user_circuit_emails-past.png</figcaption>
</figure>

## Member Schools

To see a list of schools in the chapter, use the "Member Schools" link
on the sidebar, then search for a school name or press "See All:"

<figure>
<img src="user_circuit_chapters.png" title="user_circuit_chapters.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>user_circuit_chapters.png</figcaption>
</figure>

For each search result, you can click the "Edit" button to edit that
school's information, including their name and adding/remove Tabrrom
accounts with administrative access to that school. As a circuit
administrator, you shouldn't make changes to a school's settings unless
you have a good reason to do so - school-specific information is usually
controlled by that school's admin instead.

## Circuit Tournaments

The Tournaments link on the sidebar will show you a list of all
tournaments on the circuit for the current season:

<figure>
<img src="user_circuit_tourns.png" title="user_circuit_tourns.png"
width="600" />
<figcaption>user_circuit_tourns.png</figcaption>
</figure>

To see a different season's calendar, use the dropdown box on the
sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="user_circuit_tourns-past.png"
title="user_circuit_tourns-past.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>user_circuit_tourns-past.png</figcaption>
</figure>

For each tournament in the list, you can press the "Access" button to
edit who has administrative access to the tournament, or "Remove" to
remove the tournament's association with the circuit (this doesn't
delete the tournament entirely).

### Fixing Results

The "Fix Results" button next to each tournament will let you make
changes to the final results. You should be VERY careful with this
function, for obvious reasons - it is much better to contact the
tournament director and have them make changes in the actual tournament
as if they were tabbing it. This function is designed for when something
goes awry and the tournament director needs assistance.

When using "Fix Results" you will be given an option of which results
you need to change. Most of these options are currently defunct and
shouldn't be used. The currently active options are:

#### Link school entries to master database chapters

This option lets you link school entries at a tournament to their main
"chapter" in the Tabroom database. This can be useful when, for example,
a tournament was tabbed offline and you want to match up school entries
with their chapter so that results appear in the correct place.
Selecting this option will give you a list of school entries at the
tournament:

<figure>
<img src="user_circuit_chapter-by-tourn.png"
title="user_circuit_chapter-by-tourn.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>user_circuit_chapter-by-tourn.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If any of the Chapters are 0, you can click the name of the school entry
to search for the appropriate chapter to link it to.

#### Recalculate WUDC scores

This lets you assign a new WUDC weight to the tournament.

## Final Places

The Final Places option on the sidebar lets you recalculate final places
for a tournament, which is used in computing RPI and WUDC rankings. You
will see a list of tournaments from the current season, or you can
select a different season with the box at the bottom of the page.

<figure>
<img src="user_circuit_tourn-results.png"
title="user_circuit_tourn-results.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>user_circuit_tourn-results.png</figcaption>
</figure>

For each tournament, you can select "Generate Final Places" to calculate
them.

## School Codes

If your circuit wishes to standardize school codes across all
tournaments in the circuit, you can set them with the "School Codes"
option in the sidebar - this can make it easier to follow results over
the season:

<figure>
<img src="user_circuit_codes.png" title="user_circuit_codes.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>user_circuit_codes.png</figcaption>
</figure>

## Download Contacts

The Download Contacts (CSV) option in the sidebar will download a
spreadsheet containing contact information for all the schools in your
circuit.

Remember that you can also use Tabroom to automatically send an email to
circuit members rather than do so manually.

## Regions

Some circuits make use of "Regions" - selecting this option from the
sidebar will let you configure them.

[3d](Category:Tabroom_Manual "wikilink")