\[ Print\] \| \[ PDF\]

Tabroom's Live Updates feature lets you "follow" entries or judges at a
tournament, to receive emails and texts with pairings, results, etc.

## Setup Live Updates

In order to receive live updates, you must have the correct email
address, phone number, and cell provider in your Account Profile.

After logging in, click the "Profile" link at the top of the page, and
ensure you have filled out your phone number and cell phone provider,
then click "Save Changes."

<figure>
<img src="user_login_profile-phone.png"
title="user_login_profile-phone.png" width="600" />
<figcaption>user_login_profile-phone.png</figcaption>
</figure>

## Following By Tournament

To add people to your Live Updates list, you first have to access the
Tournament from one of the [Calendars](Calendars "wikilink"), then go to
the Live Updates tab. If you are notyet following anyone, your list will
be blank:

<figure>
<img src="index_tourn_updates_index.png"
title="index_tourn_updates_index.png" width="600" />
<figcaption>index_tourn_updates_index.png</figcaption>
</figure>

To add to your list, select an event/division of entries, a list of
judges, or an entire school, then click a result to add it your list.
After selecting one, you'll get a list of possible
entries/judges/schools to follow, like this:

<figure>
<img src="index_tourn_updates_index-entries.png"
title="index_tourn_updates_index-entries.png" width="600" />
<figcaption>index_tourn_updates_index-entries.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Once you are following an entry/judge, they will appear on your Live
Updates tab in yellow:

<figure>
<img src="index_tourn_updates_index-following.png"
title="index_tourn_updates_index-following.png" width="600" />
<figcaption>index_tourn_updates_index-following.png</figcaption>
</figure>

You will receive a confirmation email any time you start following
someone.

## Stop Live Updates

To stop following an entry or judge, simply click the item in your list
on the Live Updates tab, and they will be removed.

Alternatively, you can search for your phone/email and stop all updates.
First, select the option to "Stop Your Live Updates" in the sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="index_tourn_updates_index-stopupdates.png"
title="index_tourn_updates_index-stopupdates.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>index_tourn_updates_index-stopupdates.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Then, search by phone or email:

<figure>
<img src="index_tourn_updates_undo.png"
title="index_tourn_updates_undo.png" width="400" />
<figcaption>index_tourn_updates_undo.png</figcaption>
</figure>

## Stop All Notifications

If you are no longer involved with debate and want to ensure you're
never contacted by Tabroom, just go to your account profile and remove
your cell phone number, then check the box for "No Emails:"

<figure>
<img src="user_login_profile-noemail.png"
title="user_login_profile-noemail.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>user_login_profile-noemail.png</figcaption>
</figure>

That's it - you'll never be contacted by Tabroom again.

[6d](Category:Tabroom_Manual "wikilink")