\[ Print\] \| \[ PDF\]

The Entries menu lets you view and manipulate entry information, whether
you are using online registration or entering data manually. It's also
where you go to import or export data when using other tab programs,
such as TRPC, or to see a variety of statistics about your tournament.
Also included are functions for dealing with invoices and communicating
with registrants.

Via the Entries menu, you can access information about any individual
entry, judge, or school. Note that most information pages link to one
another - so if you are viewing a judge, it's easy to get to their
school's complete entry, or vice versa.

## Use the Search Box

Usually, the fastest way to find information in Tabroom is to use the
search box in the upper right corner of the page.

<figure>
<img src="tabs_search.png" title="tabs_search.png" width="200" />
<figcaption>tabs_search.png</figcaption>
</figure>

For example, if you search for a school's name, you'll be taken right to
their entry. If you search for a judge's or entry's last name, you'll be
taken straight to their info page. If there are multiple items that
match your search, you'll be given a list of results.

You can quickly set the focus to the search box by using Ctrl+S on your
keyboard. Then, just type your search and press Enter.

## School Info

<figure>
<img src="tabs_entries_schools.png" title="tabs_entries_schools.png" />
<figcaption>tabs_entries_schools.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Each school registered for your tournament has it's own page where you
can see their entries, judges, vital information, and invoices, as well
as mark them as "registered" when they arrive at the tournament. You can
access these with the "Schools" menu option.

A few other school related options, such as adding a new school or
viewing school statistics are instead found under the "Data" or
"Reports" menu options and will be mentioned below.

### Accessing a School Page

To access a school's page, you select it from one of the dropdown menus
under the Schools menu option:

<figure>
<img src="register_index-schools.png" title="register_index-schools.png"
width="300" />
<figcaption>register_index-schools.png</figcaption>
</figure>

School's will be listed as "Not Checked In" until they are marked as
Registered (that is, on site at the tournament), either by you or by the
school (if using "On-Site" registration - see the section on [General
Settings](General_Settings "wikilink") for more info). Once they are
registered at the tournament, they will be in the "Checked In" menu
instead.

The Judges and Money tabs will appear in red if a school is under their
judging obligations, or if they owe judge fees:

<figure>
<img src="register_school_edit-redtabs.png"
title="register_school_edit-redtabs.png" width="400" />
<figcaption>register_school_edit-redtabs.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Adding A School

If not using online registration and you need to manually add a school,
you use the "Data" menu option, and then click "Add new school" on the
sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="register_data_index-entry.png"
title="register_data_index-entry.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_data_index-entry.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If your tournament is listed in a circuit, you'll have the option of
adding a school in the same circuit. Otherwise, you can manually add a
school by name. If Tabroom finds a matching school with a similar name,
you'll be prompted whether to add the pre-existing school or create one
from scratch:

<figure>
<img src="register_data_add-school.png"
title="register_data_add-school.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>register_data_add-school.png</figcaption>
</figure>

The same section of the sidebar also has options to check on "Empty
schools" which have zero entries, and then delete them all en-masse.
This can be useful to clean up your tournament data if you have a lot of
schools that clicked on your tournament (creating an "entry"), who never
actually entered students. There are similar functions for dropping or
deleting "TBA" entries from all schools.

### General School Info

After accessing a school through the **Entries - Schools** menu, the
"General" tab of a school's page lets you edit their basic information,
such as name, code and contact information. You can also enter how much
they've paid and any relevant notes like a check number or monies owed:

<figure>
<img src="register_school_edit-general.png"
title="register_school_edit-general.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>register_school_edit-general.png</figcaption>
</figure>

At the bottom, you will see information about the school, who originally
registered their school and when, and which tabroom accounts have access
to their school account, so you know who to contact if necessary:

<figure>
<img src="register_school_edit-info.png"
title="register_school_edit-info.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>register_school_edit-info.png</figcaption>
</figure>

To drop the entire school's entry permanently, use the "Drop Entire
Entry" link - you will be prompted to confirm first.

<figure>
<img src="register_school_edit-drop.png"
title="register_school_edit-drop.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_school_edit-drop.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Accessing/Adding School Entries

The "Entries" tab of a school's page will first show you the school's
complete entry roster:

<figure>
<img src="register_school_entries-roster.png"
title="register_school_entries-roster.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>register_school_entries-roster.png</figcaption>
</figure>

To access any individual entry, just click on their name or code. You
can also Drop or Undrop an entry by toggling the button in the Drop
column.

For more information on manipulating individual entries, see the section
below on the "Events" section.

To see only entries in a particular event, click the 'Add to' menu on
the right (the number is the current number of entries from the school
in that event):

<figure>
<img src="register_school_entries-divisions.png"
title="register_school_entries-divisions.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_school_entries-divisions.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Once you have selected an event, you can manually add an entry, either
from that school's roster, by entering their name, or just as a "TBA"
slot:

<figure>
<img src="register_school_entries-add.png"
title="register_school_entries-add.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_school_entries-add.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Accessing/Adding School Judges

Once you select the "Judges" tab of a school's page, you must then
select which judge category to view. If the school is below their
obligation in a judge category, it will appear in red:

<figure>
<img src="register_school_judges-groups.png"
title="register_school_judges-groups.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_school_judges-groups.png</figcaption>
</figure>

For each judge category, you will see a list of currently entered
judges, with options to change their rounds or delete them:

<figure>
<img src="register_school_judges-list.png"
title="register_school_judges-list.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>register_school_judges-list.png</figcaption>
</figure>

You can also add a new judge to the school by clicking on the plus sign:

<figure>
<img src="Add_a_Judge.png" title="Add_a_Judge.png" width="400" />
<figcaption>Add_a_Judge.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Note that for events using the "Rounds Per Entry" burden method, newly
added judges will default to a full (maximum) commitment. Make sure to
adjust the newly added judges rounds as necessary.

For more information on manipulating individual judge entries, see the
section below on the "Judges" menu item.

### Money / Concessions

The "Money" tab of a school page is where you go to view a school's
invoice, add and remove fees/fines, and record a school's payment.

The Money tab contains an itemized school invoice with all entry fees,
judging fees, purchased concessions, and nuisance fines all in one
place. It will update automatically as changes are made to a school's
entry (for example dropping a team before the add/drop deadline).

<figure>
<img src="register_school_invoice-fees.png"
title="register_school_invoice-fees.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>register_school_invoice-fees.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Fees or Nuisance Fines can be removed from a school's invoice by
selecting the box next to each charge in the sidebar. Note that after
deletion, no record of that charge will remain on the invoice.

<figure>
<img src="Custom_Invoice_Image.png" title="Custom_Invoice_Image.png"
width="300" />
<figcaption>Custom_Invoice_Image.png</figcaption>
</figure>

To add additional charges or payments, use the "Add Charge" box on the
sidebar. To credit a payment to the invoice, use a negative number for
Amount.

<figure>
<img src="register_school_invoice-add.png"
title="register_school_invoice-add.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_school_invoice-add.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If you need a printout of the invoice, for example to hand out at
registration (either for entry fees, concessions, or combined), you can
generate a PDF using the pdf icon on the invoice:

<figure>
<img src="register_school_invoice-printouts.png"
title="register_school_invoice-printouts.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>register_school_invoice-printouts.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If you have configured concessions available for purchase, you will also
see a separate tab for "Concessions," or "Label You Create" which will
let you add or remove concessions orders for a school manually. The
charges will then update on the main invoice. You can also print out a
separate concessions order for the school with the link on the sidebar.

<figure>
<img src="register_school_concessions.png"
title="register_school_concessions.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>register_school_concessions.png</figcaption>
</figure>

To see information about money and payments in the aggregate rather than
one school at a time, you can use the "Reports" menu option instead, and
then the "Money/Concessions" section of the sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="register_reports_index-money.png"
title="register_reports_index-money.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_reports_index-money.png</figcaption>
</figure>

**Entry Fees & Fines** - Shows an itemized financial report for your
entire tournament, including all entry and judge fees and concessions

**Individual School Balances** - Shows a list of all schools and their
related fees, including both unpaid balances and owed refunds.

**List of Fees & Fines** - Shows a report with all levied fines (such as
add/drop nuisance fines or missed judging fees), sorted by school

**List of Payments** - Shows a report of all schools that have made
payments, along with which tournament admin entered receipt of that
payment and the date it was recorded.

**Concessions Orders** - Gives you a list of all ordered concessions per
school.

**Concessions Totals** - Shows you the total amount of concessions and
types of concessions ordered for your tournament.

Each report also has the option to print as a PDF or CSV spreadsheet.

### School Followers

The "Followers" tab lets you add or remove which Tabroom accounts
receive Live Updates for the entire school with pairings/results:

<figure>
<img src="register_school_followers.png"
title="register_school_followers.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>register_school_followers.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### School Registration

When viewing a school's info page, the "Status" section of the sidebar
will show whether a school is registered (i.e. physically at the
tournament or completed online registration) or not:

<img src="register_school_edit-status.png"
title="register_school_edit-status.png" width="300"
alt="register_school_edit-status.png" />
<img src="register_school_edit-status2.png"
title="register_school_edit-status2.png" width="300"
alt="register_school_edit-status2.png" />

**Important Note** - Whether a school is marked as "Registered" or not
has no effect on their entries - their students and judges will still be
considered active, they will still be paired, etc. The Registration
system is just designed to make things easier for you organizationally -
but using it is totally optional.

If online "on-site" registration is enabled, a school can mark
themselves as registered, otherwise you can do it at registration as
schools arrive. To register a school, toggle the 'Confirmed Onsite'
button in the sidebar. If you accidentally register a school, you can
toggle the same button back to not registered.

The sidebar contains links for a number of useful printouts that can be
used at registration, such as entry sheets, invoices, or judge
assignments.

<figure>
<img src="register_school_edit-printouts.png"
title="register_school_edit-printouts.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_school_edit-printouts.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If you want to see the registration status of all schools at once, or
print out registration packets, invoices, or dance cards en-masse, you
use the "Reports" menu option instead of viewing each school
individually. You then use the "Onsite Registration" section of the
sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="register_reports_index-onsite.png"
title="register_reports_index-onsite.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_reports_index-onsite.png</figcaption>
</figure>

This section lets you view the registration status of each event (so you
know whether an event is ready to be paired), as well as print a list of
registering schools, dance cards, complete registration packets, or any
individual registration item you need, such as invoices or housing
assignments.

### School Regions

If you want to divide schools into "regions" for the purposes of pairing
or judge assignments, you must first enable them in the Tournament
Settings. For more information, see the section on [General
Settings](General_Settings "wikilink"). You also need to toggle the box
in **Settings - Events - <Event> - Pairing/Sectioning** for "Avoid
in-region matchups in presets," or assigning regions won't do anything.

Once you have enabled them, you have to create the regions you want to
use and then assign each school to a region. You configure regions in
**Entries - Data**, and then the "Edit regions" and "School regions"
options.

<figure>
<img src="register_data_index-regions.png"
title="register_data_index-regions.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_data_index-regions.png</figcaption>
</figure>

To create the regions you want to use, select "Edit regions," then fill
out a name and code for each region:

<figure>
<img src="register_data_regions.png" title="register_data_regions.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>register_data_regions.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Once you have created the regions, you have to assign each school to a
region. Click the "School regions" option on the sidebar, and then
select an option for each school:

<figure>
<img src="register_data_school-regions.png"
title="register_data_school-regions.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>register_data_school-regions.png</figcaption>
</figure>

You can also select the "School states" option to change which state
each school is listed from.

## Events / Entry Info

<figure>
<img src="tabs_entries_events.png" title="tabs_entries_events.png" />
<figcaption>tabs_entries_events.png</figcaption>
</figure>

The "Events" menu option lets you access information about individual
entries. You can also get to the same place by going through the entry's
School page, or by accessing their information directly from the
schematic. Whichever way you get there, you end up at the same page.

### Entries Overview

After selecting the "Events" menu option, you will see a list of events
at the tournament, including the number of active entries, drops, and
waitlisted entries in each event:

<figure>
<img src="register_event_index-divisions.png"
title="register_event_index-divisions.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>register_event_index-divisions.png</figcaption>
</figure>

To access the list of entries in an event, just click on the event name.

If you want a spreadsheet or PDF with all the entry information (or just
drops/waitlist, etc.), a master list of entry codes, or a list of which
schools are entered in each event, you can use the links on the sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="register_event_index-all.png"
title="register_event_index-all.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_event_index-all.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Once you have selected an event, you will see a list of entries in that
event:

<figure>
<img src="register_event_roster.png" title="register_event_roster.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>register_event_roster.png</figcaption>
</figure>

You can switch to viewing drops or waitlisted entries by choosing the
option on the sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="register_event_roster-options.png"
title="register_event_roster-options.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_event_roster-options.png</figcaption>
</figure>

To view an individual entry's information, click on their name or entry
code.

### Editing An Entry

Once you have selected an individual entry, you can make a variety of
changes:

<figure>
<img src="register_entry_edit.png" title="register_entry_edit.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>register_entry_edit.png</figcaption>
</figure>

You can manually change their entry name or code, mark whether the entry
needs an ADA room, and view their preset seed (if in use). You can also
make changes to an individual person's information by clicking on their
name (for example to fix a spelling error).

#### Swapping An Entry

Using the tools on the sidebar, you can make a variety of swaps for an
entry:

<figure>
<img src="register_entry_edit-swap.png"
title="register_entry_edit-swap.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_entry_edit-swap.png</figcaption>
</figure>

To change which student(s) are part of an entry, use the "Swap
Competitors" section and choose a different student from the school's
roster in the drop-down list. If they don't appear in the list, you can
use the plus sign to "Add competitor not on roster."

**Important Note** - When swapping a student in an entry, do NOT click
on the person's name in the entry information and then edit it there.
That will make changes to that person's record on the school's student
roster, and should only be used to fix things like a spelling error. If
you want to REPLACE a student with someone else, use the "Swap
Competitors" section instead.

You can also choose to swap an entry into a different event/division
(for example moving an entry in Open down to JV), or switch which school
an entry is affiliated with.

#### Dropping An Entry

To Drop or Disqualify an entry, use the "Drop & Stop Scheduling" button
in the Details section on the sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="register_entry_edit-havoc.png"
title="register_entry_edit-havoc.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_entry_edit-havoc.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Dropping an entry does not automatically remove them from any pairing on
which they currently appear (such as rounds in which they have already
competed or presets), so you may also need to manually change the
schematic to remove them. However, a dropped entry will not be placed on
any future schematics.

Once you have dropped an entry, you can un-drop them by using the link
on the sidebar, or completely delete them from the system by clicking
"Delete Entry Completely." You should rarely need to completely delete
an entry - it's usually better to leave them in the system as a drop so
there's a record of what happened and when.

You also have the option of Disqualifying an entry. In debate events,
this has the same effect as dropping them. In IE's, it will
automatically give one extra rank to each competitor who ranked behind
the disqualified entry in their rounds.

### Editing An Entry's Results

When viewing an entry, you will also see their list of scheduled rounds
(with results, if any):

<figure>
<img src="register_entry_edit-rounds.png"
title="register_entry_edit-rounds.png" width="600" />
<figcaption>register_entry_edit-rounds.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If you click on any opponent, judge, or room, you will be taken directly
to that information instead.

To make changes to an individual entry's results, click the "eye" icon
in the Action column for the particular round.:

<figure>
<img src="tabbing_entry_card.png" title="tabbing_entry_card.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>tabbing_entry_card.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Note that most of the time, you'll make changes to an individual round
from the schematic (for example to assign a bye or forfeit), rather than
accessing an entry's individual results.

### Accessing An Entry's Prefs

To view an entry's pref sheet, first access their entry information,
then click the link for "Pref Sheet" on the sidebar. This will show you
the prefs they've entered, and allow you to make changes to it directly.
Note that pref quotas are not enforced on this screen, so be careful
with any manual changes:

<figure>
<img src="register_entry_prefs.png" title="register_entry_prefs.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>register_entry_prefs.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If you want to copy another team from the same school's pref sheet, use
the "Clone Prefs" section on the sidebar. Be very careful - once you
overwrite a team's prefs, you can't get the original prefs back:

<figure>
<img src="register_entry_prefs-clone.png"
title="register_entry_prefs-clone.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_entry_prefs-clone.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Managing The Waitlist

If you have enabled a waitlist for an event, you can manage it by
selecting **Entries - Events**, choosing an event, and then selecting
"Waitlist" on the right. That will show you the entries on the waitlist,
with the option of admitting them (including whether to automatically
notify coaches):

<figure>
<img src="register_event_roster-waitlist.png"
title="register_event_roster-waitlist.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>register_event_roster-waitlist.png</figcaption>
</figure>

When viewing a school's complete entry, waitlisted entries will be
listed as "On Waitlist":

<figure>
<img src="register_school_entries-waitlist.png"
title="register_school_entries-waitlist.png" width="600" />
<figcaption>register_school_entries-waitlist.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If you view an individual entry on the waitlist, you will see options on
the sidebar for admitting that single entry:

<figure>
<img src="register_entry_edit-waitlist.png"
title="register_entry_edit-waitlist.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_entry_edit-waitlist.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Or, you can re-waitlist an entry by toggling the "Waitlisted - Notifies
coaches" button.

<figure>
<img src="register_entry_edit-rewaitlist.png"
title="register_entry_edit-rewaitlist.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_entry_edit-rewaitlist.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Re-coding Entry Codes

Sometimes, it's necessary to re-assign the codes for schools, entries,
or judges. For example, if you make a change to the entry code style for
an event (such as switching from First/Last to a numeric code), but
already have some entries with the old code style, you can "re-code" the
entire event to make sure all entries have the correct codes.

It's frequently helpful to run a recode on all events right before you
start pairing- just to ensure that all the entry codes are in the
correct format, reflect the correct names, etc.

Re-coding functions are found under **Entries - Data**, and the "Codes &
Names" section of the sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="register_data_index-codes.png"
title="register_data_index-codes.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_data_index-codes.png</figcaption>
</figure>

From there, you can re-code schools, entries (by event), or judges. For
example, to recode the entries for an event, you select "Entry codes,"
then set a code value to start from and a sorting method and click Go:

<figure>
<img src="register_data_entry-recode.png"
title="register_data_entry-recode.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>register_data_entry-recode.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Entry Stats

![](tabs_entries_reports.png "tabs_entries_reports.png") You can access
a variety of statistics about your tournament using the **Entries -
Reports** menu, including generating a PDF for each type of report:

<figure>
<img src="register_reports_index-stats.png"
title="register_reports_index-stats.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_reports_index-stats.png</figcaption>
</figure>

**Total Headcounts** - Generates a report with the total number of
schools, entries, judges, regions, and people, also broken down by event
and judge group.

**School Headcounts** - Shows a headcount for each school, including the
number of judges and students.

**School List** - Shows a list of all the schools entered in the
tournament, including whether they are registered.

**Dbl entry totals** - Lets you keep tabs on which students are double
entered, so you can prevent any mistakes or verify at registration.

**Judge Shenanigans** - This report will check for a variety of common
entry errors, such as judges with the same name entered in multiple
events. It's usually a good idea to check this report at least once
before pairing the first round to make sure you haven't missed anything.

**Judge Obligations** - Lists each school and whether they are above or
below their judging obligation for each event.

**ADA Room Needs** - Lists all entries or judges that have been marked
as needing ADA accommodations.

### Preset Seeds

Before you can assign seeds to each team for use in pairing preset
rounds, you must first set a preset seeding method in your Event
Settings, in **Settings - Events - <Event> - Pairing.** For more
information, see the section on [Events](Events "wikilink").

Make sure to choose a pairing method that corresponds to the number of
seed categories and presets you use. For example, if you choose "Hit All
Seed Categories" and have 2 presets, you should have 2 seed categories.

Once you have enabled preset seeding for an event, you will see an
option for "Pairing Seeds" on the sidebar when viewing that event in
**Entries - Events**:

<figure>
<img src="register_event_seeds-sidebar.png"
title="register_event_seeds-sidebar.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_event_seeds-sidebar.png</figcaption>
</figure>

For each entry, you can assign a numeric seed (usually, 1-4), and view
that entry's record for help in determining their correct seed
placement. You can also choose to auto-generate seedings based on
tournaments in your region that the entries have previously attended:

<figure>
<img src="register_event_seeds.png" title="register_event_seeds.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>register_event_seeds.png</figcaption>
</figure>

## Judge Info

<figure>
<img src="tabs_entries_judges.png" title="tabs_entries_judges.png" />
<figcaption>tabs_entries_judges.png</figcaption>
</figure>

The "Judges" menu option is usually the easiest place to access judge
information, though as with entry information, you can access the same
page through a school's info or the schematic.

### Judges Overview

The "Judges" menu option will first show you an overview of all your
judge categories, including the total number of judges and obligated
rounds in each category, along with hire requests, if any:

<figure>
<img src="register_judge_index.png" title="register_judge_index.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>register_judge_index.png</figcaption>
</figure>

The links on the sidebar lets you download a CSV spreadsheet or PDF of
all judges, check school judge burdens, and see which judges have
offered rounds through the hiring exchange. To access broad information
such as how many rounds each judge in the pool has judged so far in the
current season, choose a specific judge category then make your choice
from the sidebar :

<figure>
<img src="register_judge_index-all.png"
title="register_judge_index-all.png" width="400" />
<figcaption>register_judge_index-all.png</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure>
<img src="register_judge_seasonal-round-counts.png"
title="register_judge_seasonal-round-counts.png" width="400" />
<figcaption>register_judge_seasonal-round-counts.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Judge Category Info

To see more detail, you can click on a judge category in the list, or
select it from the sidebar. You will then be shown the list of judges in
that judge category, including their round commitment, code/school, and
any notes included by the coach. Judges marked as "Inactive" will be
shown in red.

<figure>
<img src="register_judge_roster.png" title="register_judge_roster.png"
width="600" />
<figcaption>register_judge_roster.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Make sure to scan the coaches notes before pairing your first round, as
coaches frequently include availability information in the Notes field
(e.g. "Not available round 1") instead of using time blocks correctly.

To get more info on the judge group, use the links on the sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="register_judge_roster-group.png"
title="register_judge_roster-group.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_judge_roster-group.png</figcaption>
</figure>

This gives you options to see all judges, conflict sheets, the pref
report or the ability to add a new judge to the judge group manually
(for example for a late add or a new hired judge).

To edit the round obligations or hiring availability for all judges in
the group en-masse, you can use the "Round Obligations" link.

To access the information for any individual judge, click their name or
code.

### Individual Judge Info

When viewing an individual judges' info page, you have a variety of
options:

<figure>
<img src="register_judge_edit.png" title="register_judge_edit.png"
width="600" />
<figcaption>register_judge_edit.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If the event is using online ballots, you will see a box that allows you
to link a judge entry to a Tabroom account manually, or unlink it if it
was linked in error.

You can edit the judges name, judge code, school affiliation, and
contact info, such as email and phone. You can also move a judge to a
different judge group by using the dropdown box, or change which event
they count towards covering an obligation for a school - so for example
you could have a judge in JV covering an Open team's judging obligation.

You can also make changes to their round obligation or available hired
rounds, and change which sub-pools they are available for.

If necessary, you can drop the judge using the "Wreak Havoc" section on
the sidebar. Usually, it's better to just mark a judge as "Inactive" by
changing the Active button to "No." That will prevent them from being
paneled, but will make it easy to re-enable them if they become
available again.

### Judge Availability / Strikes

In Tabroom, any reason that a judge can't judge a particular debate is
considered a "strike" - so there are several different types of strikes:

**MPJ strikes** - given by competitors if you have MPJ configured, this
is what most people normally think of when they think "strike."

**Competitor conflicts** - any reason that a judge can't judge a
particular student/entry, such as having previously coached them. This
is normally what is thought of as a "preclusion" or "constraint."

**School conflicts** - When a judge can't judge a particular school, for
example because they've recently coached there.

**Region conflict** - Prevents a judge from judging any school in a
particular region (if using regions in the tournament settings).

**Event/Division strike** - Precludes a judge from judging particular
divisions (including just in elims), such as preventing a judge from
judging Open. This is most useful when you have a combined judge group
that can see multiple events.

**Time strikes** - Tabroom treats any time during which a judge is
unavailable as a "strike." So instead of marking a judge as unavailable
for "Round 1," you have to mark a judge as unavailable for the times
during which you have scheduled Round 1 (e.g. 8-10am for example). This
is because people are usually not available at particular times (e.g.
because of an appointment), not really because that time happens to be
Round 1. Striking a judge by time is ultimately more useful, since a
round may be rescheduled for a variety of reasons - and you would want
the judge to be able to judge that round if it ended up occurring at a
different time at which they were available.

To add any kind of strike (other than MPJ strikes, which are added by
competitors on their pref sheets), you access the judge's info sheet and
then click the "Strikes" box at the top:

<figure>
<img src="register_judge_edit-strikes.png"
title="register_judge_edit-strikes.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>register_judge_edit-strikes.png</figcaption>
</figure>

You will then be given the option of adding any of the previously
discussed types of strikes:

<figure>
<img src="register_judge_judge-strikes.png"
title="register_judge_judge-strikes.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>register_judge_judge-strikes.png</figcaption>
</figure>

**Important Note** - When adding a time strike for a judge, be careful
about the end time you select. If you have your schedule configured such
that one round's end time is the same as the next round's start time,
then a time strike placed on the boundary will prevent the judge being
placed in either round, which is usually not the intended effect. So,
for example, if you have Round 1 configured from 8-10 and Round 2 from
10-12, then giving a judge a time strike from 9-10 will prevent them
judging either Round 1 or 2, because they are "unavailable" at exactly
10am. To prevent this, configure your scheduled time slots so that Round
1 ends at, for example, 9:30 instead of 10, and then give the judge a
time strike from 9-9:55.

To remove any "strike," view the judge's info sheet, and click on the
trash can next to the strike you want to delete on the list in the
sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="register_judge_judge-strikes-existing.png"
title="register_judge_judge-strikes-existing.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_judge_judge-strikes-existing.png</figcaption>
</figure>

One final option is found under **Entries - Data**, and lets you select
"Mutually conflict schools' judges" to prevent two schools from judging
each other. This can be useful when two schools share a judging/coaching
staff, for example.

### Judging Pref Reports

To see aggregate information about the prefs for judges in the judge
group, use the "Pref Report" link on the sidebar from the main judge
group screen.. This will show you the average pref and standard
deviation for each judge in the pool, which can help find out who your
"most preferred" judges are, for example to ask them to donate
additional rounds or to ensure you don't burn them too early.

Depending on how you configure MPJ for the judge group, you may also
have additional options on the sidebar to see free strikes, check time
block totals or see all conflicts in one place:

<figure>
<img src="register_judge_roster-group-prefs.png"
title="register_judge_roster-group-prefs.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_judge_roster-group-prefs.png</figcaption>
</figure>

To see how all entries rated a particular judge, first access that
judge's info page, then click the "Pref Sheet in CX (example)" link on
the sidebar.

### School Judging Burdens

To check which schools are above or below their judging obligations,
select the "Check School Judging Burdens" link on the sidebar from the
main judges page. You will then see a list of schools and their
outstanding commitment in each judge group:

<figure>
<img src="register_judge_check-burdens.png"
title="register_judge_check-burdens.png" width="600" />
<figcaption>register_judge_check-burdens.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If a school is under their commitment, it will show as "X owed" where X
is the number of rounds they are under. If a school has too much
judging, it will be listed as a negative number and says "-X (over)"
instead. If a school has exactly the right amount to meet their
commitment, that column will be blank.

A related report is available under **Entries - Reports**, and the link
for "Judge Obligations" on the sidebar. This will show you a list of
schools and whether they are above or below their obligation in each
event.

### Linking Judge Accounts

If you are using online ballots for a judge group, you will see an
additional section on the sidebar when viewing that judge group. This
will give you options to manually link judge entries to their Tabroom
accounts, or to approve requests from judges to do the linking (the link
will appear in Red if there are active requests):

<img src="register_judge_roster-online.png"
title="register_judge_roster-online.png" width="300"
alt="register_judge_roster-online.png" />
<img src="register_judge_index-requests.png"
title="register_judge_index-requests.png" width="300"
alt="register_judge_index-requests.png" />

### Hired Judges

There are two different methods of offering hired judging, both of which
may be used alone or simultaneously. You can offer tournament-provided
hired judging and then let people request hired rounds, and/or you can
enable a "hiring exchange" where judges can offer hired rounds and
schools can hire them without you needing to manually match them up.

For more information on enabling hired judging, see the section on
[Judge Groups](Judge_Groups "wikilink").

#### Hired Judging Requests

If you have enabled tournament-provided hired judging for a judge group,
you will see a a link on the sidebar for "Hire Requests."

<figure>
<img src="register_judge_hire-requests-sidebar.png"
title="register_judge_hire-requests-sidebar.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_judge_hire-requests-sidebar.png</figcaption>
</figure>

This will show you the list of hire requests and allow you to fully or
partially accept them. The coach who made the request will then be
notified by email of any changes in the status of their request:

<figure>
<img src="register_judge_hire-requests.png"
title="register_judge_hire-requests.png" width="600" />
<figcaption>register_judge_hire-requests.png</figcaption>
</figure>

#### Hiring Exchange

If you have enabled a "hiring exchange," for a judge group, you can view
offers and hires by selecting "Hiring Exchange" on the sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="register_judge_roster-exchange.png"
title="register_judge_roster-exchange.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_judge_roster-exchange.png</figcaption>
</figure>

This will show you a list of pending and accepted offers, and let you
approve (or unapprove) judges requests to be on the exchange:

<figure>
<img src="register_judge_hire-exchange.png"
title="register_judge_hire-exchange.png" width="600" />
<figcaption>register_judge_hire-exchange.png</figcaption>
</figure>

To cancel a specific hire request, you can click a judges name to view
their info sheet, and then remove the hire request by clicking on it on
the sidebar.

## Change Log

<figure>
<img src="tabs_entries_changelog.png"
title="tabs_entries_changelog.png" />
<figcaption>tabs_entries_changelog.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Tabroom keeps a log of most of the changes you make to your tournament
as they happen, such as entry drops or pairing a round. The "Change Log"
menu option lets you view these logs, which can make it easier to track
down when something happened or who made a particular change.

First, you should set a date range on the sidebar - it's usually helpful
to include a little extra on each side of your range, just in case you
were wrong about the time:

<figure>
<img src="register_changes_index-date.png"
title="register_changes_index-date.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_changes_index-date.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Then, choose which log you want to view, including Entry/Judge drops or
moves, or the full tabulation log:

<figure>
<img src="register_changes_index-change.png"
title="register_changes_index-change.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_changes_index-change.png</figcaption>
</figure>

## Importing / Exporting Data

<figure>
<img src="tabs_entries_data.png" title="tabs_entries_data.png" />
<figcaption>tabs_entries_data.png</figcaption>
</figure>

In addition to adding schools or re-coding entry/judge codes, the "Data"
menu option is where you can import or export your full tournament data,
either to create a backup if the internet breaks, or to allow going back
and forth between other tabbing programs, such as Joy of Tournaments or
TRPC.

### Importing Data

Tabroom can import entry data (including schools and judges) from a
variety of sources, including the "Universal XML" format used by the
TRPC, CAT, and STA, as well as importing registration data from Joy of
Tournaments:

<figure>
<img src="register_data_index-import.png"
title="register_data_index-import.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_data_index-import.png</figcaption>
</figure>

To import, select the option from the sidebar which matches the source
of your data, and follow the instructions to upload your data file.

**Important Note** - For most import methods, such as Joy of
Tournaments, you must have already created the Judge Groups and Events
in Tabroom to exactly match the incoming data. So, for example, if you
have an event in Joy called "LD," it must also be called "LD" in
Tabroom, not "Lincoln Douglas," otherwise the import will fail. Make
sure to exactly follow the instructions on screen for your chosen import
method.

Depending on the import method you choose, there may be some data which
cannot be imported automatically - make sure to read the on-screen
instructions for any warnings. For example, when importing Joy of
Tournaments data, time constraints are not imported, but are instead
listed in the "Notes" field for each judge - so you'll need to re-enter
them manually.

### Exporting Data

Tabroom can export your tournament data for use in another tabbing
program, such as TRPC, the CAT, or STA. This can also be useful as a
periodic backup mechanism if the internet were to fail at your
tournament. So, for example, you could save a TRPC export after each
round, so that in an emergency you could load the current state of your
tournament offline and continue tabbing.

To export your data, choose an option from the "Import/Export" section
on the sidebar.

Make sure to read through the on-screen instructions for further
information on using your exported data.

### Resetting The Tournament

If necessary, you can also completely reset your tournament data using
the link on the sidebar. For obvious reasons, this shouldn't be done
once a tournament has started - once you've deleted everything, there's
no way to get the data back.

<figure>
<img src="register_data_index-reset.png"
title="register_data_index-reset.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_data_index-reset.png</figcaption>
</figure>

## Emails

<figure>
<img src="tabs_entries_emails.png" title="tabs_entries_emails.png" />
<figcaption>tabs_entries_emails.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Tabroom's built-in email functions make it easy to contact all your
tournament participants with important notifications and information. To
use them, select the "Emails" menu option. Note that this is distinct
from the "blasting" of pairings via email/web notification, which is
done directly from the schematic - the "Emails" section is instead for
communicating general information to the tournament.

To email the tournament, click "Compose New Email" on the sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="register_emails_index-new.png"
title="register_emails_index-new.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_emails_index-new.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Fill out a subject line and email message in the boxes provided, and
then make sure to select who to send it to:

<figure>
<img src="register_emails_compose-send.png"
title="register_emails_compose-send.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_emails_compose-send.png</figcaption>
</figure>

You must choose at least one group to send to - you can choose to send
the email to all coaches, or just a subset of coaches or judges.

Once you have sent an email, you can view it in the "Email Archive" on
the sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="register_emails_index-archive.png"
title="register_emails_index-archive.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_emails_index-archive.png</figcaption>
</figure>

[5a](Category:Tabroom_Manual "wikilink")