\[ Print\] \| \[ PDF\]

Pairing/Paneling rounds is done differently depending on the event type.
Speech events are paneled using the "Paneling" menu, while Debate events
are paired using the Schemats menu. Speech events also typically panel
all prelim rounds in advance, while Debate events usually only preset
some of the rounds.

Before you proceed to pairing rounds, you should double check all of
your tournament settings, especially the schedule. You should also look
through your entries and judges for any possible problems, such as an
event with too few judges, or a judge that was accidentally entered
twice.

## Paneling Speech Events

Paneling speech events is mostly done using the "Paneling" menu. You can
choose whether to panel all events at once or one at a time, and whether
to automatically assign rooms when you panel the round, or separately
afterwards. You also have the option of whether to panel all prelim
rounds at the same time, or you can panel each round one at a time.

### Paneling Speech Prelims

![](tabs_paneling_rounds.png "tabs_paneling_rounds.png") To get started
paneling prelims in Speech, use the "Rounds" menu item. You will then be
given the option to panel all speech events at once (recommended), or
one at a time:

<figure>
<img src="panel_round_index.png" title="panel_round_index.png"
width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_round_index.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If you choose the "Mass Attack" option, you will see a list of events,
where you can choose the number of sections to create. Tabroom will try
to evenly distribute entries through the number of sections you choose -
so the more sections you use, the smaller the average section size will
be.

<figure>
<img src="panel_round_mass-create.png"
title="panel_round_mass-create.png" width="600" />
<figcaption>panel_round_mass-create.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Make sure the "Do?" column is checked for each event you want to panel,
and choose whether to let Tabroom auto-assign rooms at the same time,
then click "Panel All Events."

You will then see a progress report on the screen as Tabroom panels each
round. When finished, you will be given the option to run a disaster
check (explained in more detail below), or proceed to paneling judges:

<figure>
<img src="panel_round_panel-master-done.png"
title="panel_round_panel-master-done.png" width="400" />
<figcaption>panel_round_panel-master-done.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If instead of "Mass Attack," you choose to panel a single event, you
will see a similar screen that lets you choose the number of sections to
use for each round:

<figure>
<img src="panel_round_event.png" title="panel_round_event.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>panel_round_event.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If you need more control over the pairing process, you also have the
option of paneling only a single round, direct from the schematic. Use
the Schemats menu to view the round you want to pair, then select "Auto
Section" from the sidebar to automatically panel that round. You will
then be prompted to create the number of sections you want to use, and
the auto-paneler will split up students into that number of sections.

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_show-panelone.png"
title="panel_schemat_show-panelone.png" width="250" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_show-panelone.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Your final option for paneling is to manually create the panels
yourself. In most situations, this is unnecessary and more prone to
error than using the automatic paneler, but is available if you need it.
To use, view the round you want to panel in the Schematics menu, then
choose "Hand Assignment" from the sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="panel_manipulate_manual-speech.png"
title="panel_manipulate_manual-speech.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_manipulate_manual-speech.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Choose how many panels to create, then click Go. You will then be given
a list of entries in the event, and will be asked to choose which panel
each entry should be assigned to:

<figure>
<img src="panel_manipulate_manual-speech-assign.png"
title="panel_manipulate_manual-speech-assign.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>panel_manipulate_manual-speech-assign.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Assign Speech Judges

![](tabs_paneling_judges.png "tabs_paneling_judges.png") Once you have
created the panels for an event (either all at once or one at a time),
you can proceed to assigning judges, using the "Judges" menu option.
Then, choose a judge group from the sidebar.

The "Mass Assign" tab lets you assign judges to all events in a judge
group at once.

<figure>
<img src="panel_judge_index.png" title="panel_judge_index.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>panel_judge_index.png</figcaption>
</figure>

It will show you some statistics about the judge group, then let you
choose whether to erase the existing judge assignments, and how many
judges should be on each panel (in prelims, this is usually 1). You can
then choose whether to assign judges in all time slots and to all
rounds, or just a subset, and click "Reassign Judges."

You will then see a progress report as Tabroom tries to assign the
judges, Once it's finished, you'll see a message that judge assignments
are done, and links to view a disaster check or a chart of judge
assignments:

<figure>
<img src="panel_judge_group-judges.png"
title="panel_judge_group-judges.png" width="400" />
<figcaption>panel_judge_group-judges.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Once your judges are assigned, the Judges menu option also has a number
of helpful tabs. The "Chart" tab shows a list of all judges and their
assignments for each round:

<figure>
<img src="panel_judge_chart.png" title="panel_judge_chart.png"
width="600" />
<figcaption>panel_judge_chart.png</figcaption>
</figure>

The "Availability" tab shows you the total number of judges you have
available in each round, and the "Activate" tab lets you quickly
active/deactivate judges in the judge group all in one place.

The Judges menu option is also where you configure Judge Pools for all
events, including Debate events. For more information on judge pools,
see the section of the manual on [Judge
Groups](Judge_Groups "wikilink").

### Assign Speech Rooms

<figure>
<img src="tabs_paneling_rooms.png" title="tabs_paneling_rooms.png" />
<figcaption>tabs_paneling_rooms.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If you didn't auto-assign rooms during the paneling step, you can assign
rooms to a speech event using the "Rooms" menu option, and then choosing
a timeslot on the sidebar. The "Mass Assign" tab will show you a listing
of current assignments, and the option to auto-assign the rooms in that
timeslot:

<figure>
<img src="panel_room_index-timeslot.png"
title="panel_room_index-timeslot.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>panel_room_index-timeslot.png</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure>
<img src="panel_room_index-auto.png" title="panel_room_index-auto.png"
width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_room_index-auto.png</figcaption>
</figure>

The **Paneling - Rooms** menu option is also where you configure Room
Pools. For more information on setting up Room Pools, see the section of
the manual on [Sites & Rooms](Sites_&_Rooms "wikilink").

Once you've assigned rooms, there are a few other helpful tabs with room
information. The "Chart" tab will show you which rounds are assigned to
each room:

<figure>
<img src="panel_room_chart.png" title="panel_room_chart.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>panel_room_chart.png</figcaption>
</figure>

The "Report" tab will give you detailed information about each room,
including which rounds it's being used, and which room pools it's in.

The "Reservations" tab lets you designate a room for a particular judge.
Note that this will make the room unavailable to any other judge, even
if the judge it's reserved for isn't judging that round:

<figure>
<img src="panel_room_reserve.png" title="panel_room_reserve.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>panel_room_reserve.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Paneling Speech Elims

Unlike prelims, Speech elims are paneled directly from the Schematic.
Select the event from the Schematic menu, and then choose the tab for
your first elim round. First, view the "Settings" link below the round
label:

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_show-settings.png"
title="panel_schemat_show-settings.png" width="400" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_show-settings.png</figcaption>
</figure>

This will let you double check that your round is configured with the
appropriate number of judges per panel, as well as verify you are using
the correct room pool, judge pool, and tiebreak set for the elims. Then,
click "Auto-Advance to Elim Round" from the sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_show-auto-pair-speech.png"
title="panel_schemat_show-auto-pair-speech.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_show-auto-pair-speech.png</figcaption>
</figure>

This will show you a list of seeds in order, to help you see where the
break will take place:

<figure>
<img src="tabbing_break_index-scores.png"
title="tabbing_break_index-scores.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>tabbing_break_index-scores.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Then, use the sidebar to choose which round to break from (either the
last prelim or the previous elim round), and how many students to break
(including how many panels), and click "Break Them:"

<figure>
<img src="tabbing_break_index-advance.png"
title="tabbing_break_index-advance.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>tabbing_break_index-advance.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Once you have panels, you can assign judges and rooms the same way you
would for prelims - either using the **Paneling - Judges** menu (make
sure to select the correct time block and round), or directly from the
schematic.

### Publishing And Printing Speech

<figure>
<img src="tabs_paneling_reports.png"
title="tabs_paneling_reports.png" />
<figcaption>tabs_paneling_reports.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Once you have panels, judges, and rooms, you can publish the round on
the web and/or print out schematics and ballots.

If you plan to print physical copies of ballots or other printouts, you
can access most of them from the "Reports" menu option, where you can
choose the type of printouts you need:

<figure>
<img src="panel_report_index-types.png"
title="panel_report_index-types.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_report_index-types.png</figcaption>
</figure>

"Printouts" contains options to print schematics, ballots, and a large
number of other printouts. If you're looking for a speech-related
printout, odds are it's there.

"Tab Sheets" has a variety of diagnostic reports, such as pref reports
or a list of which entries a judge has already seen. You can even print
out cards if you wanted to tab the tournament by hand:

<figure>
<img src="panel_report_tabs.png" title="panel_report_tabs.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>panel_report_tabs.png</figcaption>
</figure>

"Judge Point Averages" lets you see the average speaker points any judge
has given throughout the tournament.

<figure>
<img src="tabs_paneling_publish.png"
title="tabs_paneling_publish.png" />
<figcaption>tabs_paneling_publish.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If you want to make speech schematics or results public on the web, you
can use the "Publish" menu option. You can then choose whether to select
an event or an entire timeslot by toggling the link for "By
Division/Entire Timeslot" on the sidebar.

If you select a single event, you can choose for each round whether to
publish the pairing or results:

<figure>
<img src="panel_publish_index-event.png"
title="panel_publish_index-event.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>panel_publish_index-event.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If you choose an entire timeslot, you can publish or unpublish pairings
or results for all events in the timeslot at once:

<figure>
<img src="panel_publish_timeslots.png"
title="panel_publish_timeslots.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>panel_publish_timeslots.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Many of the same options in the "Reports" and "Publish" menu options are
also available directly from the schematic for each round in the "Share
& Enjoy" section of the sidebar. This section has tools to publish the
schematic/results, email/text blast the round to participants, and print
out ballots:

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_show-share-speech.png"
title="panel_schemat_show-share-speech.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_show-share-speech.png</figcaption>
</figure>

## Pairing Debate Events

<figure>
<img src="tabs_schemats_all.png" title="tabs_schemats_all.png" />
<figcaption>tabs_schemats_all.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Pairing debate events is done directly from the schematic, which you can
access using the "Schemats" menu (listed by event-type). Then, make sure
you're on the correct tab for the round you want to pair.

### Pairing Debate Prelims

First, choose whether to automatically or manually pair the round:

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_show-change-debate.png"
title="panel_schemat_show-change-debate.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_show-change-debate.png</figcaption>
</figure>

To pair the round automatically, use the "Auto-pair debaters" link on
the sidebar. The majority of the time, this is all you need to do to
have a finished pairing based on the powermatching or preset rules
you've set up in your tournament settings.

If you choose "Manually pair debate" instead, you then choose a "Mode"
for dealing with side constraints, and then choose each entry and judge
manually. When you've finished a round, click "Save Debate" and it will
move on to the next debate until you have a complete pairing:

<figure>
<img src="panel_manipulate_manual-debate.png"
title="panel_manipulate_manual-debate.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>panel_manipulate_manual-debate.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If your round is a power-matched debate (i.e. not a preset), you will
also have the option to use the "Manual Powermatcher:"

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_show-manualpowermatch.png"
title="panel_schemat_show-manualpowermatch.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_show-manualpowermatch.png</figcaption>
</figure>

First, choose which bracket to pair from the sidebar (or show all
brackets):

<figure>
<img src="panel_manipulate_manual-powermatch-bracket.png"
title="panel_manipulate_manual-powermatch-bracket.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_manipulate_manual-powermatch-bracket.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Then, click on an entry to find an opponent - possible opponents with a
constraint (such as the same school or having previously debated) will
be shown in red. To choose an opponent, click the "Choose" button next
to the opponent, and they will be paired against the first entry you
selected:

<figure>
<img src="panel_manipulate_manual-powermatch.png"
title="panel_manipulate_manual-powermatch.png" width="600" />
<figcaption>panel_manipulate_manual-powermatch.png</figcaption>
</figure>

For each entry, you can also give a bye or pull them down into a lower
bracket. Proceed in this fashion until every entry has an opponent (or
bye). Usually, you want to pair the top bracket first, and then the next
lower bracket on down. As you create each debate, it will be shown at
the bottom under "Current Pairings:"

<figure>
<img src="panel_manipulate_manual-powermatch-current.png"
title="panel_manipulate_manual-powermatch-current.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>panel_manipulate_manual-powermatch-current.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If you make a mistake, you can reset the brackets using the links on the
sidebar. Or, you can collapse brackets or auto-pair the remaining
debates:

<img src="panel_manipulate_manual-powermatch-changes.png"
title="panel_manipulate_manual-powermatch-changes.png" width="300"
alt="panel_manipulate_manual-powermatch-changes.png" />
<img src="panel_manipulate_manual-powermatch-changes2.png"
title="panel_manipulate_manual-powermatch-changes2.png" width="300"
alt="panel_manipulate_manual-powermatch-changes2.png" />

To automatically assign the sides for the debate, click "Assign debate
sides."

### Pairing Debate Elims

Pairing debate elims is also done directly from the schematic. First,
check the "Round Settings" on the sidebar to ensure that you have the
correct panel size and round type selected:

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_show-settings2.png"
title="panel_schemat_show-settings2.png" width="600" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_show-settings2.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Then, click "Auto-pair break round." You'll be shown a list of seeds in
order, to help see where the break will be:

<figure>
<img src="tabbing_break_index-scores2.png"
title="tabbing_break_index-scores2.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>tabbing_break_index-scores2.png</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure>
<img src="tabbing_break_index-advance2.png"
title="tabbing_break_index-advance2.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>tabbing_break_index-advance2.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Then, select which round to break from (the last prelim or previous
elim), verify the time blocks and tiebreak sets are set correctly,
choose the starting/ending seed to break, and click "Break Them:"

Normally, you break entries in a multiple of 8, e.g. 32 for a double, 16
for an octa, etc. This will ensure a full bracket with no byes. If you
instead break a different number of entries, Tabroom will take care of
pairing the partial elim/runoff, and will assign byes as necessary.

As an alternative to using the auto-pair, you can use "Manually pair
debate," which works the same a manually pairing a prelim.

If your elim pairing results in entries from the same school debating
each other, and you don't manually "break brackets" to allow both teams
to advance, then the ballot entry screen for that round will show up as
a "Coachover," which will let you select which entry advances. By
default, it will choose the higher seed:

<figure>
<img src="tabbing_entry_index-coachover.png"
title="tabbing_entry_index-coachover.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>tabbing_entry_index-coachover.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Assigning Debate Judges

Once you have a completed pairing, you're ready to assign judges. The
easiest way to assign judges is to use the "Auto-assign judges" link on
the sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_show-autojudge.png"
title="panel_schemat_show-autojudge.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_show-autojudge.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Judges will then be assigned according to the rules you have set in the
Judge Group and Event settings. The automatic judge assigner will also
attempt to assign rooms automatically at the same time.

If you need to manually place judges, use the "Hand place judges" link
instead. You will be shown a list of unused judges available for that
round in the sidebar;

<figure>
<img src="panel_round_manual-judges-unused.png"
title="panel_round_manual-judges-unused.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_round_manual-judges-unused.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If you drag and drop a judge onto the pairing, you can place them in any
round you want. Rounds with a conflict for that judge will be shown in
red, and the prefs for that judge will be shown in the rightmost column
for each debate. If placing a single judge, put them in the "Chair
Judge" column. If you are placing a panel, put one judge as the chair,
and the rest under "Other Judges"

<figure>
<img src="panel_round_manual-judges-drag.png"
title="panel_round_manual-judges-drag.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>panel_round_manual-judges-drag.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If you are using ordinal prefs for an event, then as an alternative to
Tabroom's judge placement algorithm, you will also have the option of
using Gary Larson's STA judge placement algorithm instead. Click the
link for "STA-Assign Judges" and follow the on-screen instructions. This
option should only be used by advanced users.

For more information on swapping individual judges or viewing
diagnostics on your judge commitments and prefs, see the section below.

#### Timeslot Merging

You can assign all the judges for multiple divisions at once by
combining them together onto the same pairing, placing the judges, and
then separating them out. This is useful if you have multiple preffed
divisions sharing the same judge pool, and do not want to prioritize one
over the other.

To do this, all rounds you want to simultaneously pair must be in the
same time slot. Pair all the entries into debates. Then go to any of the
schematics for any of the rounds, and go to Settings. Find "Merge
Timeslot Rounds" on the left column. The GREEN button will merge the
panels for all timeslots into one unified round. You can then place
judges and adjust them as you please. Before you place rooms or go
forward, go back to the same button and hit the RED button to un-merge
the rounds.

### Assigning Debate Rooms

Rooms are usually assigned automatically when auto-assigning judges, but
you can also assign rooms manually if necessary.

To re-assign room automatically, click the "Auto-assign rooms" link on
the sidebar. If you have already manually assigned some rooms, it will
only auto-assign the remaining rooms, unless you first delete all the
rooms and start from scratch:

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_show-autoroom.png"
title="panel_schemat_show-autoroom.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_show-autoroom.png</figcaption>
</figure>

To manually assign rooms, use the "Hand place rooms" link on the
sidebar. You will be shown a list of unused rooms:

<figure>
<img src="panel_round_manual-rooms-unused.png"
title="panel_round_manual-rooms-unused.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_round_manual-rooms-unused.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Just drag and drop the room onto the debate you want, and it will be
assigned:

<figure>
<img src="panel_round_manual-rooms.png"
title="panel_round_manual-rooms.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>panel_round_manual-rooms.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Judge Placement Diagnostics

You can see the prefs given to each judge directly on the schematic, or
when viewing the full panel after clicking on a judge name or the room
number. For multi-judge panels, it will also show you the net pref
differential between the two teams.

You can see the number of unused judges in each round under the "States
& Data" section of the sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_show-unused.png"
title="panel_schemat_show-unused.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_show-unused.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Clicking this link will show you the list of unused judges, with a
dropdown for each judge of debates that they would fit in. This can be
useful either as a list of standby judges, who you can then easily swap
into a debate, or if you know you need to use a judge, to find a round
where they will fit.

<figure>
<img src="panel_manipulate_free-judges.png"
title="panel_manipulate_free-judges.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>panel_manipulate_free-judges.png</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_show-stats.png"
title="panel_schemat_show-stats.png" width="400" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_show-stats.png</figcaption>
</figure>

For a more complete list of statistics about judge placement, look on
the "Stats & Data" section of the sidebar:

This will show you a variety of metrics to keep track of your current
and future judging situation, such as the total number of committed
rounds, how many judges you're "burning" (i.e. using their last round of
commitment), and diagnostics on the average pref for judges placed in
the round.

For even more detail, use the links at the bottom of the sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_show-judgeinfo.png"
title="panel_schemat_show-judgeinfo.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_show-judgeinfo.png</figcaption>
</figure>

"Judge Fits" will show you all judges and the number of rounds they fit
in, along with information about their commitments.

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_judge-fits.png"
title="panel_schemat_judge-fits.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_judge-fits.png</figcaption>
</figure>

"Judge Use" will help you estimate whether you have a sufficient number
of committed rounds to finish the tournament:

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_judge-use-status.png"
title="panel_schemat_judge-use-status.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_judge-use-status.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If you have any event with more rounds required than rounds of judging
available, then you need to find more judges or beg for additional
rounds, or you won't be able to finish the tournament.

"Pref Diagnostics" will give you a readout of how well judges were able
to be placed using MPJ:

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_pref-diagnostics-mjp.png"
title="panel_schemat_pref-diagnostics-mjp.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_pref-diagnostics-mjp.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Publishing And Printing Debate

Once your schematic is complete, with rounds, judges, and rooms, you can
publish it to the web or print out postings/ballots directly from the
schematic, using the "Share & Enjoy" and "Display & Print" sections of
the sidebar. The former has links for publishing the schematic and
results to the web, or text/email blasting it to everyone. The latter
section is where you print physical postings and ballots:

<img src="panel_schemat_show-share.png"
title="panel_schemat_show-share.png" width="300"
alt="panel_schemat_show-share.png" />
<img src="panel_schemat_show-display.png"
title="panel_schemat_show-display.png" width="300"
alt="panel_schemat_show-display.png" />

You can also run a "Disaster Check" for debate events with the link on
the sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_show-disaster.png"
title="panel_schemat_show-disaster.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_show-disaster.png</figcaption>
</figure>

This will show you a report of common problems that could cause a
disaster, and will show you if it detects anything wrong:

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_debate-disaster-display.png"
title="panel_schemat_debate-disaster-display.png" width="400" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_debate-disaster-display.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Double Flighting

To double (or triple) flight an event, you just need to make sure you
set the appropriate number of flights on the schedule for that event:

<figure>
<img src="setup_schedule_event-flight.png"
title="setup_schedule_event-flight.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>setup_schedule_event-flight.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Then, pair and assign judges as normal. The auto-pairing functions will
split the round up into flights for you. If you need to manually move a
debate between flights, click the room number to view that debate, then
use the box on the sidebar to switch flights:

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_panel-view-flight.png"
title="panel_schemat_panel-view-flight.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_panel-view-flight.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Lag Pairing

To "Lag Pair" a round, (i.e. pair a debate before the round immediately
prior has results in), just pair the round normally, before recording
any of the results from the previous round. Tabroom will just use
whatever results have been entered so far. So, for example, to lag pair
rounds 5 and 6 based off the first 4 debates, just wait until all the
results have been entered for the first 4 rounds, then pair both rounds
5 and 6 one after another. You should do this before entering partial
results for round 5 - otherwise, some teams will have results for that
round and others won't.

In practice, lag pairing is rarely necessary, even for fairly tight
schedules - Tabroom makes pairing the next round very quick, so it's
usually beneficial to wait until all the results from the previous round
are in.

### Round Robins

To pair a round robin, first make sure you have set the option for
"Round Robin format" in **Settings - Events - <Event> - Tabulation.**

By default, all entries in the event will be considered a single "pod" -
so you will need to have the same number of rounds on your schedule as
you have teams (since each team debates every other team once, plus a
bye round). For example, a 9 team round robin would need 9 scheduled
debates in order to pair.

If you want more than one "pod," you first have to go to **Entries -
Events - <Event>**, and then choose "Round Robin Pods" from the sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="register_event_roster-roundrobin.png"
title="register_event_roster-roundrobin.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_event_roster-roundrobin.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Assign each team to a pod, then click "Save Pod Assignments:"

<figure>
<img src="register_event_pods.png" title="register_event_pods.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>register_event_pods.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Optionally, you can assign each pod a name and then click "Save Pod
Labels."

Once you have configured everything, the schematic will have the option
to "Auto-pair entire Round Robin:"

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_show-roundrobin.png"
title="panel_schemat_show-roundrobin.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_show-roundrobin.png</figcaption>
</figure>

This will pair the entire round robin in advance, with as many pods as
you have configured.

If you have elimination rounds, they're configured and paired as
normal - when you go to break teams from the schematic into an elim
round, you will be shown the seed order for all entries, including their
rank in their respective pods, and can choose who to break into the
elims.

## Manipulating Pairings

The process for manually making changes to a completed pairing is
similar for both speech and debate events. Most things you would need to
do can be accomplished by clicking on the entry/judge/room you need to
change, and then following the on-screen instructions.

Note that if you make a change to the pairing after it has been released
(e.g. changing a change), it's usually a good idea to use the
"Text/Email blast this section" link on the sidebar to notify everyone
involved of the change.

### Moving An Entry

To move an entry to a different round/panel, click their code on the
schematic.

### Moving IE Entries

For IE's, you then need to click "Move" next to the entry you want to
move:

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_panel-view-move.png"
title="panel_schemat_panel-view-move.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_panel-view-move.png</figcaption>
</figure>

You will be shown a list of panels - to put the entry in a round, click
"Add." The entry you're moving is shown in blue. Other entries from the
same school are shown in red:

<figure>
<img src="panel_manipulate_speech-round-edit.png"
title="panel_manipulate_speech-round-edit.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>panel_manipulate_speech-round-edit.png</figcaption>
</figure>

To move a different entry instead, click their entry code or use the box
on the sidebar.

To change the order of speakers in a round, click "Change Speaker Order"
on the sidebar and then change the number next to each entry as
necessary:

<img src="panel_schemat_panel-view-order.png"
title="panel_schemat_panel-view-order.png" width="300"
alt="panel_schemat_panel-view-order.png" />
<img src="panel_schemat_speaker-order.png"
title="panel_schemat_speaker-order.png" width="400"
alt="panel_schemat_speaker-order.png" />

If your panels have become unbalanced (for example, due to drops), you
will also see an option on the sidebar for "Manually Rebalance."

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_show-rebalance.png"
title="panel_schemat_show-rebalance.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_show-rebalance.png</figcaption>
</figure>

This will show you a list of entries which can safely be moved to
smaller panels to rebalance all the rounds - click on their name to move
them:

<figure>
<img src="panel_manipulate_manual-rebalance.png"
title="panel_manipulate_manual-rebalance.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>panel_manipulate_manual-rebalance.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Moving Debate Entries

After clicking their code on the schematic, you will be shown a list of
rounds to put them in - clicking on another entry will swap them. The
entry you are moving is shown in blue. Entries they have seen before
will be shown in orange, and entries/judges from the same school will be
shown in red.

<figure>
<img src="panel_manipulate_debate-round-edit.png"
title="panel_manipulate_debate-round-edit.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_manipulate_debate-round-edit.png</figcaption>
</figure>

To select a different entry to move instead, use the dropdown box on the
right:

<figure>
<img src="panel_manipulate_debate-round-edit-move.png"
title="panel_manipulate_debate-round-edit-move.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_manipulate_debate-round-edit-move.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If you need to create an additional room, for example to add a new round
to the pairing, use the "Add More Rooms" box:

<figure>
<img src="panel_manipulate_debate-round-edit-add.png"
title="panel_manipulate_debate-round-edit-add.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_manipulate_debate-round-edit-add.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Replacing A Judge

To replace a judge, click on their name/code on the schematic. This will
show you the current judge, as well as dropdown menus for selecting from
either judges who are currently available, or judges who are currently
judging (you would then need to find a new judge for that round
instead):

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_panel-view-judges.png"
title="panel_schemat_panel-view-judges.png" width="600" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_panel-view-judges.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Note that both menus will only show you "clean" judges with no
conflicts, strikes, etc. The "rds" column will show you the number of
rounds that judge has left, the number they've currently judged, and
their total commitment. If you are using MPJ, you will also be shown the
prefs for that judge from each entry:

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_panel-view-judges-available.png"
title="panel_schemat_panel-view-judges-available.png" width="600" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_panel-view-judges-available.png</figcaption>
</figure>

To add a judge to the panel, choose their name from the menu.

Once you have added the new judge, remember to remove the old judge from
the panel by clicking "Remove" or "RM & Fine" (if you have missed
judging fees configured).

If you know you have a judge available who is not listed in the
dropdown, you can also use the "Add literally any judge" box on the
sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_panel-view-addjudge.png"
title="panel_schemat_panel-view-addjudge.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_panel-view-addjudge.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Note that using this option will not prevent you from placing a judge
who has a conflict, is struck, or is marked as unavailable - so be 100%
sure you can actually put that judge in the debate. Usually, it's much
safer to stick with judges in the "Available" menu.

Once you have replaced the judge, you can use the "Text/Email blast this
section" link on the sidebar to blast only the entries/judges in that
round with the change.

### Improving MPJ

If using MPJ, you may want to scan the pairing for non-mutual judges, or
judges which fall below a certain preference. For example, you may want
to try to manually replace a 4/4, or a 3/2, with a better fit.

**Important Note** - The majority of the time, Tabroom will do a better
job of fitting judges than you would manually, because it can test
hundreds of possibilities in a very short time. Oftentimes, trying to
manually move judges around to improve MPJ will end up making things
worse.

To try and replace a judge, click their name from the pairing, and then
use the same procedures described above for moving a judge. The dropdown
boxes will show you available judges and their prefs, and let you make a
decision about whether to swap in judges.

### Changing Rooms

To change a room, click on the room name from the schematic. Then, use
the dropdown menu labeled "Room" to switch the room. This menu will only
show you "available" rooms that are in the appropriate pool and not
scheduled for another round:

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_panel-view-room.png"
title="panel_schemat_panel-view-room.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_panel-view-room.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If you need to assign a round to a room which does not appear in the
normal Room menu (for example because it is normally used for another
event and is in a different room pool), you can also use the "Change to
literally any room" box on the sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_panel-view-changeroom.png"
title="panel_schemat_panel-view-changeroom.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_panel-view-changeroom.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Note that using this option will not prevent you from putting a round in
a room that has another round/event scheduled at the same time, or that
has been marked inactive or reserved. Make sure you are 100% sure that
you're putting the round in the right room.

### Deleting A Round

If you made a mistake and need to start over from scratch with a round,
you can delete it entirely, or just delete the assigned judges/rooms if
you need to reassign them. All of those functions can be accomplished by
expanding the "Create & Destroy" section of the sidebar, and looking for
the red links:

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_show-delete.png"
title="panel_schemat_show-delete.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_show-delete.png</figcaption>
</figure>

**Important Note** - If you delete a round after results have been
entered, they will be impossible to recover. Once you have results, you
should almost always choose to make changes to the existing pairing,
rather than completely wipe it out.

If you have not yet paired the round, you will instead have an option to
"Delete Round From Schedule" - this will completely remove the round
from that event's schedule, and it will no longer be an available tab on
the schematics:

<figure>
<img src="panel_schemat_show-deleteschedule.png"
title="panel_schemat_show-deleteschedule.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_show-deleteschedule.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If you need to instead delete a single round/panel from the schematic,
click on the room number and then use the "Delete This Debate" or
"Delete This Section" link on the sidebar.

## Publishing Ballots just for Coaches

You can also publish win/loss, ranks, points or ballot comment/RFDs just
for coaches to access, not publicly. Click on the "Setting" blue button
top center of the schematic you want to publish and check which options
you want to publish to coaches on the middle left:

<figure>
<img src="round_results_settings.png" title="round_results_settings.png"
width="800" />
<figcaption>round_results_settings.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Coaches will then be able to see the results you've posted by clicking
on their tournament entry in Tabroom, choosing "results" and clicking
"show ballots" at left. This is the ONLY place they are visible to
coaches and team admins.

<figure>
<img src="SeeingResults.png" title="SeeingResults.png" width="800" />
<figcaption>SeeingResults.png</figcaption>
</figure>

[5b](Category:Tabroom_Manual "wikilink")