\[ Print\] \| \[ PDF\]

You can access judge paradigms from the main homepage's "Paradigms" tab,
or from individual judge entries in specific tournaments.

## Paradigm Search

You can search the entire database of judge paradigms by going to the
"Paradigms" tab:

<figure>
<img src="index_index_paradigmstab.png"
title="index_index_paradigmstab.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>index_index_paradigmstab.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Then, use the search box on the right to find the judge:

<figure>
<img src="index_paradigm_search.png" title="index_paradigm_search.png"
width="300" />
<figcaption>index_paradigm_search.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If there are more than one result, you will be shown a list to choose
from, otherwise it will take you to the matching judge's paradigm. If
the judge does not have a paradigm in the tabroom database, tabroom will
attempt to automatically find a match on the judge philosophies
wikispaces site and show you the results.

When looking at a judge's paradigm, you can also use the box at the
right to see their Judging Record and past ratings you've given the
judge, if any:

<figure>
<img src="index_paradigm_intel.png" title="index_paradigm_intel.png"
width="300" />
<figcaption>index_paradigm_intel.png</figcaption>
</figure>

## Accessing Paradigms Directly

You can also access a judge's paradigm and judge record by clicking on
their name while doing prefs or viewing their registration. You can also
get a combined list of paradigms for all judges registered at a
tournament by going to the "Judges" tab of the Tournament Info, and
using the side bar.

## Uploading Your Paradigm

To add or update your own paradigm, log-in to your account, and then
click the "Paradigm" link in the judging section of the sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="user_setup-judging.png" title="user_setup-judging.png"
width="300" />
<figcaption>user_setup-judging.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Then, just type or paste your paradigm into the provided box and click
"Save Paradigm:"
<img src="user_judge_paradigm.png" title="user_judge_paradigm.png"
width="400" alt="user_judge_paradigm.png" />

[6e](Category:Tabroom_Manual "wikilink")