\[ Print\] \| \[ PDF\]

You can access public tournament results either from the main homepage
and the "Results" tab, or you can access personal results for yourself
or your team through your account.

For information on how to access personalized results, see the page on
[Your Results](Your_Results "wikilink").

## Recent Results

To access general tournament results, click the "Results" tab:

<figure>
<img src="index_index_resultstab.png" title="index_index_resultstab.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>index_index_resultstab.png</figcaption>
</figure>

This will give you a list of recent tournament results - clicking the
green "Results" button next to a tournament will take you to that
tournament's [result page.](#Tournament_Results "wikilink")

<figure>
<img src="index_results_recent.png" title="index_results_recent.png"
width="600" />
<figcaption>index_results_recent.png</figcaption>
</figure>

## Circuit Results

To see results from a specific circuit, use the "Circuit Selector" to
choose a circuit and year:

<figure>
<img src="index_results_selector.png" title="index_results_selector.png"
width="300" />
<figcaption>index_results_selector.png</figcaption>
</figure>

You can then use the "Circuit Stats" box on the right to find a variety
of information about that circuit's results:

<figure>
<img src="index_results_circuitstats.png"
title="index_results_circuitstats.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>index_results_circuitstats.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Each of these options is explained briefly:

### Circuit Totals

Circuit Totals will show you a broad overview of the results from the
circuit, such as the number of participating schools, students, and
judges, and the number of tournament entries to date:

<figure>
<img src="index_results_circuit-stats.png"
title="index_results_circuit-stats.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>index_results_circuit-stats.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### School/Team Tables

The School/Team page will further break down this information by school,
showing you how many participants each school has, how many tournaments
they have attended, etc. You can hover your mouse over any column name
to get additional information about what it means:

<figure>
<img src="index_results_circuit-chapter.png"
title="index_results_circuit-chapter.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>index_results_circuit-chapter.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Tournament Overall Results

This will take you to the list of tournaments in the circuit - clicking
the name of any tournament will take you directly to that tournament's
results page:

<figure>
<img src="index_results_circuit-tourney-portal.png"
title="index_results_circuit-tourney-portal.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>index_results_circuit-tourney-portal.png</figcaption>
</figure>

See the section below on [Tournament
Results](#Tournament_Results "wikilink") for more information on
navigating an individual tournament's results.

### Speaker Success

This will show you the aggregated average speaker points for the entire
circuit to date, and you can sort the table based on any column:

<figure>
<img src="index_results_speaker-rankings-by-circuit.png"
title="index_results_speaker-rankings-by-circuit.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>index_results_speaker-rankings-by-circuit.png</figcaption>
</figure>

You can also further filter the information using the "Event selector"
on the right, for example if you want to only see results from JV:

<figure>
<img src="index_results_speaker-rankings-by-circuit-eventselector.png"
title="index_results_speaker-rankings-by-circuit-eventselector.png"
width="300" />
<figcaption>index_results_speaker-rankings-by-circuit-eventselector.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Team (entry) Success

This will show the aggregated results from all teams/entries in a
circuit, with stats like Total Rounds, Win/Loss percentage, Prelim/Elim
Win/Loss. By default it is limited to entries with at least 5 rounds:

<figure>
<img src="index_results_debate-stats2.png"
title="index_results_debate-stats2.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>index_results_debate-stats2.png</figcaption>
</figure>

You can further filter the table with the "Event selector" on the right:

<figure>
<img src="index_results_debate-stats2-eventselector.png"
title="index_results_debate-stats2-eventselector.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>index_results_debate-stats2-eventselector.png</figcaption>
</figure>

#### RPI

The Team (entry) Success table also includes a column for each entry's
"RPI." The RPI formula is percentile finish at tournament times
tournament weight and summed for each speaker. Example: Finish in the
80th percentile at a tournament weighted .5, the points are 80\*.5 or
40, and each speaker gets them, so the team total is 80. Weights are
determined by total entries divided by 150 with a maximum of 1.

Clicking any entry's RPI score in the table will take you to a detailed
explanation of their RPI:

<figure>
<img src="index_results_rpi-detail.png"
title="index_results_rpi-detail.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>index_results_rpi-detail.png</figcaption>
</figure>

## Tournament Results

To access the Results page for an individual tournament, you must first
access that tournament via a Calendar, the "Recent Results" page, or the
"Circuit Results," as explained above. Once you have reached the
"Results" tab for that tournament, you will see a page like this:

<figure>
<img src="index_tourn_results_event-results.png"
title="index_tourn_results_event-results.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>index_tourn_results_event-results.png</figcaption>
</figure>

First, you should select the event you're interested in the "Event
Results" dropdown, then click "Go:"

<figure>
<img src="index_tourn_results_event-results-dropdown.png"
title="index_tourn_results_event-results-dropdown.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>index_tourn_results_event-results-dropdown.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Each event will have a list on the right side of published results:

<figure>
<img src="index_tourn_results_event-results-list.png"
title="index_tourn_results_event-results-list.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>index_tourn_results_event-results-list.png</figcaption>
</figure>

This will usually include results for each round, and frequently will
include cumulative results for Final Places, Prelim Records, Speaker
Awards, Cume Sheets, etc. If you do not see results that you're
interested in, you should contact the tournament director.

## National Rankings

To see National Rankings, you can use the links under the section on the
right under the Results tab:

<figure>
<img src="index_results_nationalrankings.png"
title="index_results_nationalrankings.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>index_results_nationalrankings.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Currently, Tabroom is tracking National Rankings for NDT/CEDA. This
section may have additional national rankings for other organizations in
the future. Clicking the link for CEDA/NDT Points Results will show you
the current standings. You can sort this table by any column you like.:

<figure>
<img src="index_results_ndt-ceda-points.png"
title="index_results_ndt-ceda-points.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>index_results_ndt-ceda-points.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Further down the page you can see the results sorted by school or
tournaments:

<figure>
<img src="index_results_ndt-ceda-points-byschool.png"
title="index_results_ndt-ceda-points-byschool.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>index_results_ndt-ceda-points-byschool.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Checker Sheets

You can also use the "Checker Sheets" for any individual team to make
sure the points are correct:

<figure>
<img src="index_results_ndt-ceda-points-checkersheets.png"
title="index_results_ndt-ceda-points-checkersheets.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>index_results_ndt-ceda-points-checkersheets.png</figcaption>
</figure>

There is a separate checker sheet for each team at each tournament they
have attended - clicking their name in the list will take you to their
tournament result page for that tournament. If you notice a discrepancy,
you should contact the tournament director.

## Prior Year Results

Under the Results tab, use the "Circuit Selector" to choose your circuit
and year, then click "Search."

## Uploading Results

You can upload results from any tournament into the Tabroom database,
whether you used Tabroom to run the tournament or not. First, you will
need to request a tournament on Tabroom, into which you can upload the
data. Then, see [Publishing Results](Publishing_Results "wikilink").

[6c](Category:Tabroom_Manual "wikilink")