\[ Print\] \| \[ PDF\]

The first step for running a tournament on Tabroom is to request a
tournament. After logging in, click the "Request a new tournament" link
in the sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="user_chapter_home-request.png"
title="user_chapter_home-request.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>user_chapter_home-request.png</figcaption>
</figure>

## Requesting A Tournament

### Tournament Info

The first step of the request is to fill out some basic information
about your tournament:

<figure>
<img src="user_tourn_request.png" title="user_tourn_request.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>user_tourn_request.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Give the tournament a name (don't include a year), set the Start and End
dates/times for the tournament, and select the time zone your tournament
will be in. You will be able to modify these later if you make a
mistake.

### Web Name

You will also be asked for a "Web Name" for your tournament. Each
tournament on Tabroom gets a special web address in the form:
<webname>.tabroom.com

...where <webname> is the Web Name you enter. Visitors to this web
address will be taken directly to your [Tournament
Info](Tournament_Info "wikilink") page, where they can access the
invitation, pairings, and results. You should not use the year (like
2015) in the Web Name, because you can reuse the same Web Name every
year for the same tournament.

### Creating A Test Tournament

If you just want to try out running a tournament on Tabroom or practice
your tabbing skills, make sure to check the box for "Test Tournament" on
the request form. A test tournament will not appear on the main Tabroom
calendar, and will enable a number of options for "faking" entries,
judges, and results, to make practice tabbing easier.

### Set Deadlines

The next page of the request allows you to set various registration
deadlines for your tournament. Note that if you're using online
registration, it will open and close online automatically based on the
deadlines you set - so make sure you have it correct. Reasonable default
deadlines will be computed based on the Start/End dates you entered in
the previous step:

<figure>
<img src="user_tourn_deadlines.png" title="user_tourn_deadlines.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>user_tourn_deadlines.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Besides deadlines for online registration, you can also set some
optional deadlines, such as when registration fees are frozen, how late
entrants can drop or change names, or when drop fines will go into
effect:

<figure>
<img src="user_tourn_deadlines-optional.png"
title="user_tourn_deadlines-optional.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>user_tourn_deadlines-optional.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Tournament Circuits

You will then be asked which circuit(s) your tournament should be listed
under. All tournaments on Tabroom must be listed under at least one
circuit. Choose one or more circuits, and once your request has been
approved your tournament will appear on that circuits calendar and be
available for registration for members of that circuit (if it's after
your online registration date).

<figure>
<img src="user_tourn_circuit.png" title="user_tourn_circuit.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>user_tourn_circuit.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Tournament Location

Lastly, you will be asked to set a tournament location. You can choose
an existing location from ones that have been used before in your
circuit, which allows you to easily reuse rooms, or create a new
location if necessary:

<figure>
<img src="user_tourn_location.png" title="user_tourn_location.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>user_tourn_location.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Confirmation

After filling out all the required steps, you should see a confirmation
that your tournament has been created:

<figure>
<img src="user_tourn_confirm.png" title="user_tourn_confirm.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>user_tourn_confirm.png</figcaption>
</figure>

While you have to wait for approval from a circuit administrator to get
your tournament listed on the Tabroom calendar, you can immediately
start setting up your tournament by going to your account dashboard and
accessing it from the sidebar.

## Clone a Tournament

If you have created a tournament on Tabroom before, you will have the
option when requesting a new tournament to clone the information from a
previous tournament:

<figure>
<img src="user_tourn_request-clone.png"
title="user_tourn_request-clone.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>user_tourn_request-clone.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If you clone a tournament, it will import most settings, events, and web
setup from the previous tournament, saving you lots of setup time. Note
that entries, judges, and results are not imported - you'll still have a
clean slate for your new tournament, just with some setup steps done in
advance.

## Importing a Tournament

On the initial request form, you also have the option of importing your
tournament information from an XML file, such as from Joy of Tournaments
or TRPC.

<figure>
<img src="user_tourn_request-xml.png" title="user_tourn_request-xml.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>user_tourn_request-xml.png</figcaption>
</figure>

[4a](Category:Tabroom_Manual "wikilink")