## Entries

### Current

<figure>
<img src="Screen_Shot_2023-03-06_at_8.31.33_AM.png"
title="Screen_Shot_2023-03-06_at_8.31.33_AM.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>Screen_Shot_2023-03-06_at_8.31.33_AM.png</figcaption>
</figure>

This tab will show competitor information for the tournament currently
happening in real time. Information won’t appear on this screen until
the starting time for the event.

**Tournament Name** – Indicates the tournament the competitor is
currently attending.

**Event Name** – Indicates the event the competitor is participating in.

**Online Spaces** – Non-competition utility rooms that are created by
the tournament for competitors to use for prep, questions, or help. They
will be assigned a name that indicates their use.

**Round** – Indicates the competitor’s current or past rounds of
competition.

**Start** – Indicates the start time and time zone of the round. The
time is listed in both the competitor’s (top) and tournament’s (bottom)
time zone.

**Room** – Indicates the location of the round. Rooms can appear as
physical or virtual rooms. Physical rooms will show a name or number to
indicate the location of the round. Virtual rooms will show a blue
camera to indicate the virtual space where the round will take place.

**Side** – Indicates the side (aff, neg, pro, con, gov, opp) that the
competitor will be debating in the round. In certain events or rounds, a
competitor may need to flip for their side. Once the flip is determined
it will appear as the correct side on this page.

**Opponent** – Indicates the opponent the competitor will debate in the
round.

**Judges** – Indicates the judge for the round. The “P” before the
judge’s name indicates that they have an online paradigm.

**Results/Comments** – Indicates the result of your round and comments
left by the judge. These results/comments will only appear one the
tournament enables those options.

### Future

<figure>
<img src="Students_-_Future_Entries.png"
title="Students_-_Future_Entries.png" />
<figcaption>Students_-_Future_Entries.png</figcaption>
</figure>

This tab will show competitors the tournaments they are signed up to
attend at future dates. Information won’t appear on this screen until
you register for an event via the tournament signups function on
tabroom.com or your advisor adds you to an event.

**Tournament** – Indicates future tournaments the competitor is
registered to attend.

**Dates** – Indicates the dates the tournament will be held.

**Event** – Indicates the event the competitor is registered to
participate in.

**Info** – Indicates if there is an info sheet that was attached by your
adviser for this tournament.

**Status** – Indicates if you have been confirmed by your advisor to
compete in the tournament. “Confirmed” status indicates you’re
registered and have been accepted to compete at the tournament.
“Waitlisted” status indicates you’re registered but are still awaiting
admission into the tournament. “Declined” status indicates your coach
has denied your registration for the tournament.

### Signups

<figure>
<img src="Students_-_Signup.png" title="Students_-_Signup.png" />
<figcaption>Students_-_Signup.png</figcaption>
</figure>

This tab will show competitors any tournament their advisor has made
available for signup. This tab won’t appear if your advisor has not
enabled student signups using tabroom.com.

**Tournament** – Indicates the tournament available for signup.

**Dates** – Indicates the dates of the tournament.

**Signup Deadline** – Indicates the final date to sign up for the
tournament.

**Events Offered** – Indicates all events offered at the tournament.

**Info** – Indicates if the advisor has attached a document with
additional information for the tournament. If so, you should read that
document prior to signing up.

**Signup** – Indicates the add button you should select if a competitor
wants to attend the tournament. More information will be found in our
“competitor signups” section below.

### Results

<figure>
<img src="Results_Screenshot_1.png" title="Results_Screenshot_1.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>Results_Screenshot_1.png</figcaption>
</figure>

This tab shows you the results of all the tournaments a competitor has
attended and their results. Results will only appear here once the
tournament has enabled the results to be viewed publicly.

**Tourn** – Indicates the tournament the competitor attended that has
results published.

**Date** – Indicates the date of the tournament the competitor attended
that has results published.

**Code** – Indicates the code of the competitor when they were entered
at the tournament.

**Division** – Indicates the division the competitor participated in at
the tournament.

**Results** – Indicates results are available and by clicking the blue
document you will see those results.

### Results Screen

<figure>
<img src="Results_screen_screenshot.png"
title="Results_screen_screenshot.png" />
<figcaption>Results_screen_screenshot.png</figcaption>
</figure>

This screen indicates the result(s) of individual rounds a competitor
competed in at a tournament.

**Round** – Indicates the round of the tournament

**Start** – Indicates the start time and time zone of the round. The
time is listed in both the competitor’s (top) and tournament’s (bottom)
time zone.

**Side** – Indicates the side the competitor was on in the round. If
Public Forum, it will also indicate the speaking order of the team in
the round.

**Judges** – Indicates the judge(s) of the round.

**Results/Comments** – Indicates a win, loss, or rank for a round. A
document icon will appear if the judge left any comments for the
competitors to review after the round.

### NSDA

<figure>
<img src="Screen_Shot_2023-03-11_at_2.09.54_PM.png"
title="Screen_Shot_2023-03-11_at_2.09.54_PM.png" />
<figcaption>Screen_Shot_2023-03-11_at_2.09.54_PM.png</figcaption>
</figure>

This tab shows you the competitors NSDA credentials. On the right side
the competitors name, \# of merit points, and eligibility for districts
will appear. The recycle icon allows you to update the page with the
most recent data from the NSDA membership database.

**Member \#** - Indicates the competitors NSDA membership number.

**Honors & Degrees** – Indicates the degree the competitor received, the
date the competitor received the degree, and the program in which the
degree was issued.

## Standing Conflicts

<figure>
<img src="Standing_Conflicts.png" title="Standing_Conflicts.png" />
<figcaption>Standing_Conflicts.png</figcaption>
</figure>

This page allows competitors to enter “standing conflicts” against
individuals they believe would be biased or unfairly able to judge them
during competition. “Standing conflicts” are not confidential and should
not be used to conflict with individuals you simply do not like as a
judge. “Standing conflicts” will work automatically against any judge
that has a Tabroom.com account. Furthermore, if a judge is already
entered into a tournament, the conflict may not automatically apply, and
a competitor should contact the tournament directly to have them check.

**Add Conflict** – Can search for a judge by last name or email address,
then hit search. A list of all applicable names will appear. You will
select the specific judge you intended and select “conflict.”

**Existing Conflicts** – Lists all individuals you currently have
standing conflicts against.

## Parent Notifications

<figure>
<img src="Parent_notifcations.png" title="Parent_notifcations.png" />
<figcaption>Parent_notifcations.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Parent notifications allow competitors to enter their parents email
address to receive memos and messages when they sign up for a tournament
or their advisor sends out manual communications to the tournament
attendees.

**Add parent notification for**: The email address of the parent you
want to add should be entered, then hit add. Do this for each parent or
guardian you would like to add to your competitor account.