\[ Print\] \| \[ PDF\]

<div style="float:right;">

__TOC__

</div>

Each tournament hosted on Tabroom has it's own set of public pages,
which you can use to view the invitation, entries, judges, pairings,
etc.

First, you must access the tournament you're interested in. This is
usually done by clicking the name of the tournament from one of the
[Calendars](Calendars "wikilink"), whether the main calendar on the
homepage, a circuit-specific calendar, or your personalized calendar of
upcoming tournaments visible when you first log in to your account.

If you are accessing the tournament from your "Upcoming Tournaments"
list, you can also click the "Register" button next to a tournament to
jump straight to your school's registration.

After clicking on a tournament, you will be taken to the main
information page for that tournament:

<figure>
<img src="index_tourn_index.png" title="index_tourn_index.png"
width="600" />
<figcaption>index_tourn_index.png</figcaption>
</figure>

You will see a series of tabs with information about the tournament:

<figure>
<img src="index_tourn_index-tabs.png" title="index_tourn_index-tabs.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>index_tourn_index-tabs.png</figcaption>
</figure>

You can get information on each of these tabs below.

## Invite

The Invite tab will frequently have information about the tournament,
dates and deadlines, hotel info, etc. If the tournament director has not
pasted that information in, you should also look in the sidebar to see
if there is a downloadable invitation:

<figure>
<img src="index_tourn_index-invite.png"
title="index_tourn_index-invite.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>index_tourn_index-invite.png</figcaption>
</figure>

## Entries

The Entries tab will let you see all current entries in the tournament,
including information about a waitlist, if applicable. First, select the
event you're interested in on the right, and you will see the list of
entries:

<figure>
<img src="index_tourn_fields.png" title="index_tourn_fields.png"
width="600" />
<figcaption>index_tourn_fields.png</figcaption>
</figure>

## Judges

The Judges tab has the list of judges entered for each event. You can
also click the "<Event> Paradigms" link on the right for a page with all
the paradigms for that event combined in one place, or use the "PDF"
link to get the same thing in a downloadable/printable format:

<figure>
<img src="index_tourn_judges.png" title="index_tourn_judges.png"
width="600" />
<figcaption>index_tourn_judges.png</figcaption>
</figure>

## Pairings

The Pairings tab contains both live pairings for the tournament, as well
as important judge information. First, select the event you're
interested in on the right, and then select a round from the list. You
will be taken to a pairing:

<figure>
<img src="index_tourn_postings_round.png"
title="index_tourn_postings_round.png" width="600" />
<figcaption>index_tourn_postings_round.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Entry Info

From the pairing, you can click any entry's name to be taken to their
complete record at that tournament, where you can also sign up for [Live
Updates](Live_Updates "wikilink") for that team:

<figure>
<img src="index_tourn_postings_entry-record.png"
title="index_tourn_postings_entry-record.png" width="600" />
<figcaption>index_tourn_postings_entry-record.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Judge Info

From the Pairings tab, there is a list of Judges for each event, and
depending on the tournament, may be links for a list of judges obligated
in the next debate:

<img src="index_tourn_postings_pool.png"
title="index_tourn_postings_pool.png" width="300"
alt="index_tourn_postings_pool.png" />
<img src="index_tourn_postings_judge-list.png"
title="index_tourn_postings_judge-list.png" width="300"
alt="index_tourn_postings_judge-list.png" />

Clicking on a judge will take you to their judge record for the
tournament. You can also access a judge's record by clicking their name
directly from the pairing. From this page, you can see how they've
voted, along with links to their full judging record and the option to
follow them for [Live Updates](Live_Updates "wikilink"):

<figure>
<img src="index_tourn_postings_judge.png"
title="index_tourn_postings_judge.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>index_tourn_postings_judge.png</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure>
<img src="index_tourn_postings_judge-updates.png"
title="index_tourn_postings_judge-updates.png" width="400" />
<figcaption>index_tourn_postings_judge-updates.png</figcaption>
</figure>

## Live Updates

The Live Updates tab will show you anyone at the tournament you are
currently following, with options to add additional entries or judges,
or stop updates altogether. For additional information, see the section
on [Live Updates](Live_Updates "wikilink").

## Results

The Results tab contains links for results from each event and round,
and is usually updated more or less in real time as the tournament
progresses. For more information, see the section on [Public
Results](Public_Results "wikilink").

## Register

If you are logged in and your account is associated with a school, and
registration is open, you will see a "Register" tab for the tournament:

<figure>
<img src="index_tourn_index-register.png"
title="index_tourn_index-register.png" width="600" />
<figcaption>index_tourn_index-register.png</figcaption>
</figure>

For more information, see the section on [How to
Register](Registration "wikilink").

## Additional Info

The sidebar may also contain additional links to information, such as
downloadable packets of bills for Congress, or additional information
about an event:

<figure>
<img src="index_tourn_index-info.png" title="index_tourn_index-info.png"
width="300" />
<figcaption>index_tourn_index-info.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Email Archive

The Email Archive link has copies of all the emails the tournament
director has sent out to tournament participants, just in case you
missed one.

### Event Info

After you click Events/Divisions and then select an event, you will see
information specific to that event, such as registration fees, entry
limits, etc:

<figure>
<img src="index_tourn_events.png" title="index_tourn_events.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>index_tourn_events.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Schools Registered

This link will take you to a list of all the schools registered at the
tournament.

### Other Years' Results

If a tournament has been hosted on Tabroom for a number of years, you
may also see a link in the side bar for "Other Years' Results:"

<figure>
<img src="index_tourn_index_index-past.png"
title="index_tourn_index_index-past.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>index_tourn_index_index-past.png</figcaption>
</figure>

This will take you to a convenient list of all prior year's tournaments:

<figure>
<img src="index_tourn_past.png" title="index_tourn_past.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>index_tourn_past.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Dates & Deadlines

There will also be a box in the sidebar listing important Dates &
Deadlines for the tournament:

<figure>
<img src="index_tourn_index-dates.png"
title="index_tourn_index-dates.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>index_tourn_index-dates.png</figcaption>
</figure>

[6b](Category:Tabroom_Manual "wikilink")