\[ Print\] \| \[ PDF\]

![](tabs_settings_website.png "tabs_settings_website.png") Each
tournament on tabroom automatically comes with a public web address
where people can go directly to your tournament information, entries,
and results. You set this web address when you initially requested your
tournament, and it will look something like this:
<http://mytournamentname.tabroom.com>

The Website menu controls the information and pages available on your
tournament's website, as well as when someone accesses it from one of
the Tabroom [Calendars](Calendars "wikilink").

Some information is available on your website by default, such as the
list of events you offer, tournament dates and registration deadlines,
and a link for registering entries. You can also use built-in Tabroom
features to automatically post entry lists, schematics, and results.

You can also upload an invitation document in the **Settings -
Tournament - Name & Info** menu.

However, if you need to add other custom information to your
tournament's website, you can do so in the Website menu.

**Important Note** - There is usually a brief delay between making
changes to your tournament website and when those changes appear on the
public website. Try waiting 10-15 minutes after you save your changes.

## Standard Pages

"Standard" pages/tabs that will appear on every tournament website
include the Main page, Events, Field Reports, and Postings.

To edit the text that appears on each of these pages, select one from
the sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="setup_web_edit-standard.png"
title="setup_web_edit-standard.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>setup_web_edit-standard.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Then, add text to the page and click "Save Page Text:"

<figure>
<img src="setup_web_edit-page.png" title="setup_web_edit-page.png"
width="400" />
<figcaption>setup_web_edit-page.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Here's a brief description of each of the standard pages:

**Main** - This text will be the first thing anyone sees when they click
on your tournament website. A welcome letter, a tournament invitation,
and other critical details are appropriate for this page.

**Events** - This text will appear next to a side menu which contains
links to the descriptions of the events at your tournament, when people
first click on the Events tab of the tournament website.

**Field Reports** - This text will appear next to a side menu which
contains links to the field reports of the events at your tournament
which you have chosen to publish.

**Postings** - This text will appear next to a side menu which contains
all the postings & schematics you have chosen to make public, when users
first click on the Postings tab of the tournament. You can use it to
make tournament announcements important to the initial stages of the
tournament, or messages prior to when elimination rounds are announced.

## Custom Pages

To add a custom page, click the "Add Custom Page" link on the sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="setup_web_edit-custom.png" title="setup_web_edit-custom.png"
width="300" />
<figcaption>setup_web_edit-custom.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Then, fill out a (short) Title, choose whether the page is
published/visible, and fill out some text:

<figure>
<img src="setup_web_edit-addpage.png" title="setup_web_edit-addpage.png"
width="400" />
<figcaption>setup_web_edit-addpage.png</figcaption>
</figure>

There is no way to delete a custom page after adding it - if you don't
want it to be visible, just set "Published" to No.

## Postings

To control additional types of information available on your tournament
website, use the "Postings" section on the sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="setup_web_edit-postings.png"
title="setup_web_edit-postings.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>setup_web_edit-postings.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Field Reports are lists of who has entered your tournament in a given
event. Click the "Field Reports" link, and then you can toggle whether
events have published fields by using the Publish/Unpublish button for
that event:

<figure>
<img src="setup_web_fields.png" title="setup_web_fields.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>setup_web_fields.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Normally, you will publish each round to the web directly from the
relevant schematic. But the "Publish Schematics" link gives you a
centralized place to see which rounds are currently public, as well as
publish all prelims en-masse if you want to.

For each event, you will see a list of created schematics and a check
box for whether they're public:

<figure>
<img src="setup_web_schematics-rounds.png"
title="setup_web_schematics-rounds.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>setup_web_schematics-rounds.png</figcaption>
</figure>

You can also publish all prelims at once by using the link at the
bottom:

<figure>
<img src="setup_web_schematics-publishall.png"
title="setup_web_schematics-publishall.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>setup_web_schematics-publishall.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Lists of Clearing Students lets you choose whether to publish a list of
students participating in each elimination round:

<figure>
<img src="setup_web_clearing.png" title="setup_web_clearing.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>setup_web_clearing.png</figcaption>
</figure>

You can also post any arbitrary file/posting that you want to make
available to participants, such as event-specific instructions, a
restaurant guide, etc. Click the "Upload Files/Postings" link on the
sidebar, choose a file, and click Save.

<figure>
<img src="setup_web_postings.png" title="setup_web_postings.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>setup_web_postings.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Previously uploaded files will be listed at the top - to delete them,
click the Delete File button:

<figure>
<img src="setup_web_postings-delete.png"
title="setup_web_postings-delete.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>setup_web_postings-delete.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Live Updates controls whether particular events will be available for
people to "follow" via the website and receive texts/emails with
schematics and results. Click the "Live Updates" link, and you can
toggle each event between Enable/Disable:

<figure>
<img src="setup_web_live-updates.png" title="setup_web_live-updates.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>setup_web_live-updates.png</figcaption>
</figure>

[4i](Category:Tabroom_Manual "wikilink")