---
title: "Publishing Results"
---

The "Results" menu is where you generate final results packets, ensure
tournament results are published to the web, and see up-to-date seed
ordering as the tournament progresses.

Note that in addition to the Results menu, you usually choose whether to
publish the results of individual rounds directly on the schematic in
the "Share & Enjoy" section. of the sidebar. For more information, see
the section of the manual on [Pairing
Rounds](pairing-rounds).

## Event Display

<img src="/screenshots/tabs_results_eventdisplay.png"
title="tabs_results_eventdisplay.png" />

For a rank-ordered list of entries in an event as of any round, use the
"Event Display" menu option, then choose an event and round from the
dropdown menus:

<img src="/screenshots/tabbing_results_index-event.png"
title="tabbing_results_index-event.png" width="500" />

This will show you the list of entries in rank order based on the
tiebreakers you have configured for that event:

<img src="/screenshots/tabbing_results_index-speech.png"
title="tabbing_results_index-speech.png" width="500" />

For events with separate speaker awards, you will see a separate tab for
the entry/seed order and speaker awards:

<img src="/screenshots/tabbing_results_index-debate.png"
title="tabbing_results_index-debate.png" width="500" />

You can also publish each round's full results and RFDs individually
under the Pairing menu and selecting Publish.

## Results Reports

<img src="/screenshots/tabs_results_reports.png" title="tabs_results_reports.png" />

The "Reports" menu option is where you generate printouts for any kind
of result set you need, including lists of entries and speaker awards
for an awards ceremony.

Results reports are available by Event, School, or Entry. For any
report, select the event(s) and/or round(s) to include in the report,
and then click "Print." For some reports, you can also choose to limit
the resulting list to only a certain number, such as the top 20:

<img src="/screenshots/tabbing_report_index.png" title="tabbing_report_index.png"
width="500" />

## Web Publish Results

<img src="/screenshots/tabs_results_webpublish.png"
title="tabs_results_webpublish.png" />

The "Web Publish" menu option lets you flexibly choose which results to
make available on Tabroom. Most of the reports available in the
"Reports" menu option can also be included for publishing on the web.
This is also the menu option you use for uploading results if you used a
different tab program to tab the tournament.

**Important Note** - The "Web Publish" menu option is distinct from the
round-by-round results, which are made public from the schematic. For
example, you can choose to publish a list of "Final Places" for an event
in this menu, but not make all the speaker points from each round
public. If, like most tournaments, you want to make everything public,
then you will need to both make sure each round has the results set to
"On Web" in the "Share & Enjoy" section of the sidebar, as well as
publish any cumulative reports using "Web Publish."

To publish a results report, you first need to "Calculate" the report
you want using the sidebar:

<img src="/screenshots/tabbing_publish_index-calculate.png"
title="tabbing_publish_index-calculate.png" width="300" />

Choose an event, the type of report, and whether to make it public, then
click "Calculate."

Once you have generated the report, it will appear in the list on the
left. For each report, you can choose whether it should be published on
the web or kept private, or delete it:

<img src="/screenshots/tabbing_publish_index.png" title="tabbing_publish_index.png"
width="500" />

If you have an externally generated results packet, such as a set of
cume sheets from TRPC, you can upload them using the "Upload Results
Files" box on the sidebar:

<img src="/screenshots/tabbing_publish_index-upload.png"
title="tabbing_publish_index-upload.png" width="300" />

After uploading, they will also appear in the list for publishing or
deleting.