---
sidebar_position: 3
slug: quick-start
id: quick-start
title: Tournament Quick Start
---

This Tournament Quick Start guide is designed to give you a high-level
overview of the steps involved in tabbing a tournament using Tabroom.
It's written with a first-time tabber in mind, but may also be useful
for experienced tabbers as a checklist reminder of what to do at each
stage of running a tournament. Each section is deliberately brief - more
information and extensive documentation on each feature can be found in
the rest of the manual.

With the sheer number of options and settings available, tabbing a
tournament can sometimes feel overwhelming. Fortunately, most of the
options on Tabroom are only there if you need them - almost everything
is set to a reasonable default, so if you're not sure what something
does or whether you need it, it's usually safe to just leave it alone.

At its most basic, running a round successfully only requires three
things - competitors, a judge, and a room. The process of running a
tournament is mostly about providing those three things in a (hopefully,
somewhat) timely fashion. Everything else is just details.

If you were to sum up the order of said details in the most general
sense, it would look something like this:

1\) Set up the tournament - define events, rules, schedules, rooms, etc.

2\) Let people register so you have entries and judges

3\) Pair/panel a round

4\) Enter ballots or let judges do it themselves

5\) Repeat \#3 and \#4 until the tournament is done

6\) Publish the results

That's it! This guide and manual will walk you through each of the above
steps.

## Getting Started

If you want to follow along with this guide, you'll first need to
[Request A Tournament](Request_A_Tournament). You'll be given
the option during setup of marking the tournament as a "Test
Tournament" - this means the tournament won't be listed on the main
calendar, and will give you some additional options to do things like
create fake entries/judges and fake results, so you can walk through the
entire process of running a tournament from start to finish.

Once you have a tournament linked to your account, the first step is to
make it your active tournament by clicking on it in your sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/user_chapter_home-tournaments.png"
title="user_chapter_home-tournaments.png" width="400" />
<figcaption>user_chapter_home-tournaments.png</figcaption>
</figure>

You'll notice the top row of tabs change - you're now in "Tournament
Mode" rather than the general public website:

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/register_index-tabs.png" title="register_index-tabs.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>register_index-tabs.png</figcaption>
</figure>

**IMPORTANT TIP:** Tabroom is designed to progress logically from left
to right, and top to bottom. When in doubt, going on to the "next" menu
option will usually put you in the right place.

Each of these tabs corresponds to one of the stages of running a
tournament, from beginning to end:

**Settings** - Contains all the options for things that need to be set
up before the tournament, such as events, registration, judge and
tabulation rules, entering rooms, scheduling rounds, setting entry fees,
etc.

**Entries** - Lets you view and manipulate entries for competitors and
judges, along with some helpful features for manipulating your
tournament data, importing/exporting your tournament from other tab
programs, etc.

**Paneling** - Creates pairings and assigns judges for Individual
Events. Is not really used for debate events (CX, LD, PF, etc.). The
main exception is room pools, which are configured here for all events.

**Schemats** - Creates and manipulates schematics (a.k.a. pairings,
postings) for debate events, including assigning judges and rooms, and
lets you view or print them for all events.

**Tabbing** - For entering ballots and tabulating various results.

**Results** - For creating and publishing results after the tournament
is over.

## Settings Tab (aka Tournament Setup)

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/setup_tourn-settingstab.png"
title="setup_tourn-settingstab.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>setup_tourn-settingstab.png</figcaption>
</figure>

The Settings tab is where you configure your tournament, from general
options to setting up judge categories, events, and the schedule.

The vast majority of problems people have when tabbing a tournament are
the result of having failed to properly set something up in advance. To
ensure your tournament runs as smoothly as possible, you'll want to
check the settings described in this section thoroughly before starting
to pair rounds.

In general, you should work your way through the menu options from top
to bottom, and check each set of settings carefully. To successfully tab
a tournament, you will need to progress through each of these setup
steps - it's usually easiest to do them in the order presented here.

It's also a good idea to get these settings configured before
registration for your tournament opens - otherwise you may end up with
inaccurate registration data that needs to be fixed.

### General Settings

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/setup_tourn_main-tabs.png" title="setup_tourn_main-tabs.png"
width="500" />
<figcaption>setup_tourn_main-tabs.png</figcaption>
</figure>

The "Tournament" menu option contains a number of tabs with general
settings for your tournament. Usually, you should scan through all the
options on each tab and just set the ones that look applicable to your
situation.

**Name & Info** - Most of this information will already be filled out
from when you requested the tournament. If necessary, this is where you
can add/remove your tournament from different circuits, and where you
upload your tournament invitation document or congress bill packet.

**Settings** - This tab lets you mark a tournament as a "Test"
tournament that won't be listed on the calendar, or a "Closed"
tournament where you create all the entries/judges yourself instead of
using Online Registration. You can also decide if you want to require
adult contact information to register, which is a good idea at most high
school tournaments.

**Dates & Deadlines** - Contains various deadlines, such as when
registration opens and closes. These were set automatically when you
requested the tournament, so unless you need to change them, the
defaults are probably okay.

**Access** - If you need to give additional people administrative access
to the tournament on Tabroom (e.g. tab staff), add them here.

**Housing** - Only needed if you plan to offer tournament-provided
housing, which you probably aren't.

**Messages** - Lets you create messages shown to all registrants or
placed on invoices. Totally optional.

**Notes** - This can be used to keep a scratchpad of ideas/problems
during the tournament, so that if you run the same tournament the
following year, you can look back on your notes and (hopefully) not
repeat the same mistakes twice.

**Payment** - This tab lets you choose the number of NSDA Campus rooms
you need for your tournament and to pay for those rooms and the use of
Tabroom.com before your tournament begins.

For more in-depth explanation of each, see the section on [General
Settings](General_Settings).

### Rules & Results

"Rules & Results" is where you set up Tiebreakers and Sweepstakes rules.
Tiebreakers are rules for determining the seed order in each round (for
powermatching prelims), or who breaks to the next round (for elims).
This is where you configure things like "break ties on High/Low Points,
then Total Points, then Opponent Wins."

Your tournament comes with some default Tiebreak sets, including
separate sets for Debate, Speech, and Congress, for both prelims and
elims. You can edit these or create your own - or if you're unsure what
any of it means, you can just use the built-in tiebreakers, which are a
very reasonable default.

If your tournament doesn't have sweepstakes, you can ignore that tab.
Otherwise, you can set up the rules for determining sweepstakes points.

You may also choose to auto report TOC bids when you set the bid level
for each event or auto report NDCA qualification for its season-long
awards in the Points & Bids tab.

For more information on configuring Tiebreaks and Sweepstakes, see the
longer section on [Rules & Results](Rules_&_Results).

### Judge Categories

The "Judges" menu option is where you set up Judge Categories. A "Judge
Category" is a collection of judges which can be used in one or more
events or divisions. Every event must be in one and only one judge
category. For example, you might have a category of judges that can
judge either the novice or open divisions of policy, a second judge
category exclusively for congress judges, and a third category of judges
which could judge any other IE event.

It may seem odd to set up your judge categories before setting up your
events - just remember that a single category of judges may be used
across multiple events, but a single event will only ever pull from a
single judge category. This means it makes more sense to assign events
to judge categories than the other way around.

Note that a Judge CATEGORY is different than a Judge POOL - Judge Pools
are used to draw from a specific subset of judges in the larger judge
category - for example, only the judges that are still obligated for the
semi-finals.

After creating or selecting a judge category from the sidebar, you'll
see a list of tabs with the settings for that judge category:

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/setup_judges_edit-tabs.png" title="setup_judges_edit-tabs.png"
width="400" />
<figcaption>setup_judges_edit-tabs.png</figcaption>
</figure>

**Register** - General settings for the judge category. The most
important option to set is choosing a "burden method" to compute judge
obligations. You should also make sure to set an abbreviation for each
judge category. Most of the time, the rest of the default options are
fine.

**Hires** - If you plan to offer hired judging at the tournament, or
want to enable a "hiring exchange" where judges and schools can match up
with each other, configure it here.

**Tabbing** - Contains options about how judges are placed, a few
MPJ-related options, and lets you choose a method for ballot entry (i.e.
whether you have to double-enter each ballot). The defaults on this tab
are usually sufficient for most situations.

**Ratings** - This is where you configure mutually-preferred judging.
For the most part, all you need to do is double check the date/time that
prefs open and close, and then choose a "Pref Method," whether using
Ordinals or Tiers.

**MPJ Tiers** - If you enabled a tier-based MPJ method on the Ratings
tab, this tab will appear and let you configure them.

**Time Shifts** - If you have a number of judges likely to be
unavailable for large blocks of the tournament (such as judges that only
come on Saturday), you can configure time shifts here that allow
registering schools to mark their judges as "unavailable" during certain
times. If you just have a few judges that need to miss a round here or
there, you probably don't need to use this - you can instead just add a
time strike for that judge. Make sure you read the directions on this
tab for how to name your time blocks, to help avoid confusion.

**Pools** - This lets you configure sub-pools of judges from the larger
judge category, for example only judges still obligated in an
elimination round. Using these is optional, but can make your life
easier. You can also create pools as you go through the tournament, so
leaving them alone during the initial configuration is fine.

**Messages** - This lets you configure and send any information out to
judges like live doc links, conflict policies, and school registration
notices.

For more information, see the section on
[Settings/Judging](Settings/Judging).

### Events

This is where you configure which events/divisions you will offer at the
tournament. Once you have created or selected an event on the sidebar,
you will have a number of tabs with options for that event:

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/setup_events_edit-tabs.png" title="setup_events_edit-tabs.png"
width="400" />
<figcaption>setup_events_edit-tabs.png</figcaption>
</figure>

**Main** - General settings that you set when you created the event.
Make sure you set a minimum and maximum number of competitors per entry
(almost always both 1 for Speech, Congress, and LD, 2 for both PF and
Policy, and 3 minimum and 5 maximum for WSD). You should also set the
appropriate event "Type" so that Tabroom knows what types of options to
show you for that event. If you have NSDA members attending your
tournament, you'll also see an option to select an NSDA event type for
each event. You must choose this event type for each event to enable
NSDA auto-pointing.

**Registration** - The defaults on this tab are usually good for most
situations. Primarily useful if you need to set a cap on the number of
entries or use a waitlist.

**Online** - Lets you choose whether your event is being held online or
in person. If your tournament is being held online, you can choose the
type of NSDA Campus rooms you need for each event (ex: rooms to allow
observers, no observers, etc.). This tab will also allow you to setup
whether your speech events will occur asynchronously using uploaded
video links and whether your tournament events will occur synchronously
with pre-created room URLs.

**Sectioning/Chambers/Pairing** - This tab allows you to set specifics
related to the pairing, judging, and web publishing in each event of
your tournament.

**Tabulation** - The most commonly set item on this tab is to enable
Online Ballots. Make sure you set a number for minimum and maximum
speaker points - otherwise your online ballots will appear blank. You
can also enable use of online coin flips in this tab. The default
settings for powermatching, judges, and results should be fine for most
situations - but if you need to change something like how presets are
paired, this is where you do it.

**Ballot & Rules** - Lets you configure the appearance of the ballot for
the event. The default is fine if you don't want to mess around with it.

**Updates** - Completely optional, lets you have an email sent to
someone (e.g. a tab person) when the first and last ballots are in for
each round.

To learn more, see the section on setting up
[Settings/Events](Settings/Events).

### Schedule

The Schedule tab tends to be one of the areas which confuses
first-timers the most. You'll proceed in two parts - setting up
timeslots, and then scheduling rounds from different events in those
timeslots.

Tabroom divides up your schedule into "Timeslots" rather than Rounds.
Each timeslot can then have one or more rounds (from one or more events)
assigned to it. Different timeslots can also overlap, for example if you
had different events running at different sites that started at
different overlapping times. You can also have multiple timeslots with
identical start/end times but different names for different events if it
helps you keep things straight - like an 8-10 slot for Policy and an
8-10 slot for IE's. For an example, see the image below.

First, create your timeslots, which should largely mimic your tournament
schedule. Then, click each event on the sidebar and schedule rounds in
the appropriate timeslots:

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/setup_schedule_event-schedule.png"
title="setup_schedule_event-schedule.png" width="700" />
<figcaption>setup_schedule_event-schedule.png</figcaption>
</figure>

This is also where you can select whether to double-flight rounds for a
particular event.

**IMPORTANT TIP** - For each round you schedule, you must select a
"Type" and a "Tiebreaks" set. Otherwise, Tabroom won't know how to pair
the round, and won't know what information to collect from judges on the
ballot. This is probably the single most common mistake people make when
setting up their tournament.

For a more in-depth explanation of timeslots and scheduling rounds, see
the section on [Settings/Schedule](Settings/Schedule).

### Sites & Rooms

Sites & Rooms is where you enter your list of available rooms. You can
then create "Room Pools" for each event, so that they stay in the same
rooms.

On Tabroom, a "Site" is a grouping of all the rooms at one tournament
location, such as a campus or hotel. Odds are, you'll only need one
"site," even if you use multiple buildings. You only need to create
multiple sites if your tournament is very large and spread over
completely different locations (such as two separate high schools, or a
campus and a hotel).

Once you have created a site, you can either enter the rooms manually or
import them from a CSV file. If you use a CSV file, make sure to pay
close attention to the instructions on how to format your file.

Optionally, you can assign a "Quality" rating to each room, where 1 is
best and subsequent numbers are progressively worse - ties are fine, and
the scale is open-ended. Tabroom will then attempt to assign the "best"
rooms first.

After all the rooms are entered, you'll usually create a "Room Pool" for
each event, and potentially separate pools for certain elimination
rounds. Creating a room pool is usually as simple as giving it a name
and then clicking on the rooms to add to each pool.

For more info, see the section on [Settings/Sites &
Rooms](Settings/Sites_&_Rooms).

### Money

The Money menu option lets you set up entry and judge fees, nuisance
fines, as well as sell things like parking passes or meals (i.e.
"concessions").

You are given the option of setting entry fees, judge fines, etc. in
some of the other setup steps above. The Money section puts these all in
one place for easy editing - if the same option exists in multiple
places, it doesn't matter where you choose to set it.

You'll want to make sure you have set the entry and judge fees/fines
correctly - invoices will be automatically generated based on the
numbers you enter.

For more information on the different types of fees/fines, see the
section on [Settings/Money](Settings/Money).

### Website

Each tournament on tabroom comes with a public web address for accessing
information about the tournament, schematics, results, etc. You chose
the "web name" of your tournament when you requested it, and it will be
something like:

http://mytournamentname.tabroom.com

The Website section lets you configure what information/pages are
visible on your tournaments site, or when accessing it through one of
the tournament calendars. Note that your "Invitation" document is
uploaded separately in **Settings - Tournament.**

Whether you include additional information or customize your tournaments
website is optional. For more information, see the section on your
[Settings/Website](Settings/Website).

## Entries Tab

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/tabs_entries.png" title="tabs_entries.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>tabs_entries.png</figcaption>
</figure>

The Entries tab is where you access and manipulate individual entry
information, whether for a school, competitor, or judge. It's where you
go when you need to add, drop, or change an entry, or view a school's
invoice. Note that most information pages link to one another - so if
you are viewing a judge, it's easy to get to their school's complete
entry, or vice versa.

The functions available when viewing an entry/judge/school are also
fairly self-explanatory. If you want to drop an entry, click the "Drop"
button. If you want to change a name, click on it and edit it. If you
want to change a judge's committed rounds, find their info page and
change the number.

For a more detailed explanation of the options available for each entry,
see the section on [Managing Entries](Managing_Entries).

### Creating Entries & Judges

If you're using online registration, it will open and close
automatically based on the dates you set in the tournament settings. In
this case, there's not much you need to do other than wait and let
people register for the tournament.

If you need to manually create entries, you start with **Entries -
Data**, and click "Add a New School." Fill out the required information,
and then that school will be available for adding entries to.

Alternately, if you have complete registration data from another tab
program (such as Joy of Tournaments), you can import the data into
Tabroom by using the "Data" menu option.

Once you have schools, you can access them with the **Entries -
Schools** menu. School's will be listed as "Not In" until they are
marked as Registered. Once they are registered at the tournament, they
will be in the "In" menu instead.

Each school will have a number of tabs for accessing their general info,
entries, judges, and invoice. The Judges and Money tabs will appear in
red if a school is under their judging obligations, or if they owe judge
fees:

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/register_school_edit-redtabs.png"
title="register_school_edit-redtabs.png" width="400" />
<figcaption>register_school_edit-redtabs.png</figcaption>
</figure>

The "Entries" tab of a school's page will first show you the school's
complete entry roster:

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/register_school_entries-roster.png"
title="register_school_entries-roster.png" width="600" />
<figcaption>register_school_entries-roster.png</figcaption>
</figure>

To access any individual entry, just click on their name or code. You
can also Drop or Undrop an entry by toggling the button in the Drop
column.

Once you have selected an event, you can manually add an entry, either
from that school's roster, by entering their name, or just as a "TBA"
slot:

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/register_school_entries-add.png"
title="register_school_entries-add.png" width="200" />
<figcaption>register_school_entries-add.png</figcaption>
</figure>

The "Judges" tab works the same way as "Entries" - you can view the
school's current judge roster, edit an individual judge, or add a new
judge to the school:

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/register_school_judges-list.png"
title="register_school_judges-list.png" width="400" />
<figcaption>register_school_judges-list.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Modifying Entries & Judges

Once you have entries, either from online registration or entering them
yourself, you can access their information either through the school's
page, or directly with the "Entries" and "Judges" menu options. It's the
same page any way you get there.

The "Events" and "Judges" menu options also include a variety of options
on the sidebar for viewing information about the entire event/judge
group:

<img src="/screenshots/register_event_index-divisions.png"
title="register_event_index-divisions.png" width="400"
alt="register_event_index-divisions.png" />
<img src="/screenshots/register_judge_roster-group.png"
title="register_judge_roster-group.png" width="250"
alt="register_judge_roster-group.png" />

Accessing an individual entry or judge's page will let you edit their
information:

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/register_entry_edit.png" title="register_entry_edit.png"
width="600" />
<figcaption>register_entry_edit.png</figcaption>
</figure>

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/register_judge_edit.png" title="register_judge_edit.png"
width="600" />
<figcaption>register_judge_edit.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Use the links on the sidebar if you need to swap competitors, drop an
entry/judge, view their prefs, etc.

### Judge Availability

Often, you will need to mark a judge as "unavailable" during a certain
time, or mark them as constrained against a particular entry. In
Tabroom, any reason that a judge can't judge a particular debate is
considered a "strike" - so you'll have different types of strikes such
as a "time strike" or a "competitor strike."

To add or remove a "strike" for a judge, access their info page, click
on the Strikes box in the right corner, and enter the "time strike" or
"competitor strike." Once entered, strikes for the judge will appear on
the right side of the page. To remove any strike, click the garbage can
next to the time strike or competitor strike on the right side of the
page.

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/register_judge_edit-strikes.png"
title="register_judge_edit-strikes.png" width="600" />
<figcaption>register_judge_edit-strikes.png</figcaption>
</figure>

**Important Note** - When adding a time strike for a judge, be careful
about the end time you select. If you have your schedule configured such
that one round's end time is the same as the next round's start time,
then a time strike placed on the boundary will prevent the judge being
placed in either round, which is usually not the intended effect. So,
for example, if you have Round 1 configured from 8-10 and Round 2 from
10-12, then giving a judge a time strike from 9-10 will prevent them
judging either Round 1 or 2, because they are "unavailable" at exactly
10am. To prevent this, configure your scheduled time slots so that Round
1 ends at, for example, 9:30 instead of 10, and then give the judge a
time strike from 9-9:55.

One helpful tip - make sure you scan the coaches notes column for each
judge group before pairing your first round, as coaches frequently
include availability information in the Notes field (e.g. "Not available
round 1") instead of using time blocks correctly.

For more information, see the section on [Managing
Entries](Managing_Entries#Judge_Availability_/_Strikes).

### Linking Judge Accounts

If you are using online ballots for a judge group, you will see an
additional section on the sidebar when viewing that judge group. This
will give you options to manually link judge entries to their Tabroom
accounts, or to approve requests from judges to do the linking (the link
will appear in Red if there are active requests):

<img src="/screenshots/register_judge_roster-online.png"
title="register_judge_roster-online.png" width="250"
alt="register_judge_roster-online.png" />
<img src="/screenshots/register_judge_index-requests.png"
title="register_judge_index-requests.png" width="250"
alt="register_judge_index-requests.png" />

### Waitlists

If you have enabled a waitlist for an event, you can manage it by
selecting Entries -\> Events, choosing an event, and then selecting
"Waitlist" on the right. That will show you the entries on the waitlist,
with the option of admitting them (including whether to automatically
notify coaches):

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/register_event_roster-waitlist.png"
title="register_event_roster-waitlist.png" width="600" />
<figcaption>register_event_roster-waitlist.png</figcaption>
</figure>

For more information, see the section on [Managing The
Waitlist](Managing_Entries#Managing_The_Waitlist).

### Hired Judges

There are two different methods of offering hired judging, both of which
may be used alone or simultaneously. You can offer tournament-provided
hired judging and then let people request hired rounds, and/or you can
enable a "hiring exchange" where judges can offer hired rounds and
schools can hire them without you needing to manually match them up.

For more information on enabling hired judging, see the section on
[Managing Entries](Managing_Entries).

### Invoices & Finances

Each school's invoice is computer automatically based on the entry and
judge fees you set. To view a school's current invoice, use the "Money"
tab of their school page. That's also where you can add or remove
various fines, such as missed judge fees. You have the option of adding
or removing fees from a school's invoice as you see fit.

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/register_school_invoice-fees.png"
title="register_school_invoice-fees.png" width="600" />
<figcaption>register_school_invoice-fees.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Note that if you have configured "concessions" such as parking passes
during your tournament setup, there will also be an additional
"Concessions" tab for each school where you can view and modify their
concessions order and amount owed - but the total amount will also be
reflected on the main invoice.

To see information about money and payments in the aggregate rather than
one school at a time, you can use the "Reports" menu option instead, and
then the "Finances/Concessions" section of the sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/register_reports_index-money.png"
title="register_reports_index-money.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>register_reports_index-money.png</figcaption>
</figure>

For more information, see the section on [Managing
Entries](Managing_Entries#Money_/_Concessions).

### Registration

Tabroom's on-site registration functions are optional - they're just
designed to make your life easier organizationally. Whether a school is
marked as "Registered" or not has no effect on their entries or judges,
they'll still be paired, etc. unless you have manually dropped them.

If you're having an in-person registration before the tournament, you
can get all the printouts and invoices you need in the "Reports"
section.

You can mark a school as registered by viewing their school info page,
and then using the "Status" section of the sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/register_school_edit-status.png"
title="register_school_edit-status.png" width="250" />
<figcaption>register_school_edit-status.png</figcaption>
</figure>

If you are using online on-site registration, then each school will be
able to log in on Tabroom and mark themselves as on-site - their status
will then be updated on the school's page, so you can monitor who has
arrived.

For more information, see the section on [School
Registration](Managing_Entries#School_Registration).

## Pairing Rounds

Once you have a complete set of entries and judges, you can proceed to
pairing rounds. This is done in the "Paneling" menu for IE prelims and
the "Schemats" menu for debate events and all elims. If you are running
a tournament without IE's, you'll really only use the Paneling menu for
creating room/judge pools - everything else is done from the schematic.

Regardless of the method, pairing rounds is a three-stage process -
Assigning Rounds, Assigning Judges, and Assigning Rooms. In practice,
the automatic pairing functions will usually assign rooms at the same
time as one of the other steps, so you'll really only need to press two
buttons to get a complete pairing.

Before you proceed to pairing rounds, it's usually prudent to
double-check your tournament settings - being sure you've configured
everything right can save you a lot of headache down the line.

The below is abbreviated - for a more complete discussion of the options
available, see the section on [Pairing
Rounds](Pairing_Rounds).

### Paneling Tab (aka Pairing IE's)

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/tabs_paneling.png" title="tabs_paneling.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>tabs_paneling.png</figcaption>
</figure>

The "Paneling" tab is where you pair IE prelims. Most of the time,
you'll pair all the prelims for all events in advance. All you need to
do is click the "Mass Section All IE/Congress Prelims" button, and then
select a section size for each event (the more sections, the smaller the
average size). You can also choose to have it assign the rooms at the
same time:

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/panel_round_mass-create.png"
title="panel_round_mass-create.png" width="600" />
<figcaption>panel_round_mass-create.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Alternately, you can choose to panel a single event at a time using the
links on the sidebar. You also have the option to manually create the
panels yourself. In most situations, this is unnecessary and more prone
to error than using the automatic paneler, but is available if you need
it. To use, view the round you want to panel in the Schematics menu,
then choose "Manually panel round" from the sidebar.

Once your rounds are created, you can assign IE judges with the
Paneling - Judges menu option. Use the "Mass Assign" tab to add judges
to all your prelims at once:

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/panel_judge_index.png" title="panel_judge_index.png"
width="600" />
<figcaption>panel_judge_index.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Rooms for IE events are usually assigned during the pairing step - but
if you need to configure room pools or reassign rooms, you can do it
with the Paneling - Rooms menu option.

Finally, you can also publish ballots and feedback for rounds in each
event from the Paneling tab. To publish ballots, select the Paneling -
Web Publish menu option. You may then choose to publish ballots per
round per event or mass publish all ballots for events once the
tournament has concluded.

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/Paneling_Web_Publish_Ballots.png"
title="Paneling_Web_Publish_Ballots.png" width="600" />
<figcaption>Paneling_Web_Publish_Ballots.png</figcaption>
</figure>

### Schemats Tab (aka Pairing Debate)

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/tabs_schemats.png" title="tabs_schemats.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>tabs_schemats.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Debate events are paired directly from the schematic, as are IE elims.
First, select the event from the menu, then choose the appropriate tab
for the round you want to pair. The pairing functions are on the sidebar
under "Change & Destroy" - if you've already created a pairing for that
round, you might need to expand the box to see the options, so you don't
accidentally overwrite a round.

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/panel_schemat_show-change-debate.png"
title="panel_schemat_show-change-debate.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_show-change-debate.png</figcaption>
</figure>

To pair the round automatically, use the "Auto-pair" link on the
sidebar. The majority of the time, this is all you need to do to have a
finished pairing based on the powermatching or preset rules you've set
up in your tournament settings.

If necessary, you can use the manual powermatcher instead by clicking
the link on the sidebar. This will let you visually create a pairing by
viewing the teams in bracket order, and manipulate the pairing however
you like.

Once you have a pairing, you can assign judges with the "Auto-assign
judges" link. By default, this will try to assign rooms at the same
time. If there are no error messages (such as insufficient judges), your
pairing should be ready to go.

You also have the option of using the manual judge placer and
dragging/dropping available judges into rounds. Most of the time, this
is unnecessary - Tabroom usually does a pretty good job of testing out
all the available options and coming up with the best fit for judges.

If you're using MPJ, you can see the prefs for each judge right on the
schematic - if you then need to change a particular judge, you can click
on their name and use the drop-down menus to see other available
options.

Most of the time, rooms will be auto-assigned with the judges - but if
necessary, you can assign rooms separately, either automatically or by
hand.

### Pairing Elims

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/tabbing_break_index-advance2.png"
title="tabbing_break_index-advance2.png" width="300" />
<figcaption>tabbing_break_index-advance2.png</figcaption>
</figure>

The process of pairing elims is similar for both debate and IE's, and is
done directly from the schematic. First, access the event/round you want
to pair, and then click the "Round Settings" link on the sidebar. This
will let you set the number of judges on each panel, as well as make
sure your elim settings are correct. Then, click "Auto-Pair break
round."

You'll be shown a list of seeds in order, to help you figure out where
the break should be. Then, select which round to break from (the last
prelim or previous elim), verify the time blocks and tiebreak sets are
set correctly, choose the starting/ending seed to break, and click
"Break Them:"

Once you have rounds/panels, you can assign judges and rooms the same
way you would for prelims - either using the Paneling -\> Judges menu
for IE's (make sure to select the correct time block and round), or
directly from the schematic.

### Manipulating Pairings

The process for manually making changes to a completed pairing is
similar for both speech and debate events. Most things you would need to
do can be accomplished by clicking on the entry/judge/room you need to
change, and then following the on-screen instructions.

For example, to move an entry, you click on their name/code on the
schematic, and you will be shown a clickable version of the pairing
where you can click where you want to place them.

To replace a judge, click on their name/code on the schematic. This will
show you the current judge, as well as dropdown menus for selecting from
either judges who are currently available, or judges who are currently
judging (you would then need to find a new judge for that round
instead). Both menus will only show you "clean" judges with no
conflicts, strikes, etc. Once you have added the new judge, remember to
remove the old judge from the panel by clicking "Remove" or "RM & Fine"
(if you have missed judging fees configured):

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/panel_schemat_panel-view-judges.png"
title="panel_schemat_panel-view-judges.png" width="600" />
<figcaption>panel_schemat_panel-view-judges.png</figcaption>
</figure>

To change a room, click on the room name from the schematic. Then, use
the dropdown menu labeled "Room" to switch the room. This menu will only
show you "available" rooms that are in the appropriate pool and not
scheduled for another round.

### Publishing & Printing Rounds

Once you have panels, judges, and rooms, you can publish the round on
the web, text/email blast participants, and/or print out schematics and
ballots. Most of this is done on the schematic in the "Share & Enjoy"
and "Display" sections of the sidebar:

<img src="/screenshots/panel_schemat_show-share.png"
title="panel_schemat_show-share.png" width="250"
alt="panel_schemat_show-share.png" />
<img src="/screenshots/panel_schemat_show-display.png"
title="panel_schemat_show-display.png" width="250"
alt="panel_schemat_show-display.png" />

For IEs, you can access additional postings and printouts from the
Paneling - Reports menu option.

## Tabbing Tab (aka Entering Ballots)

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/tabs_tabbing.png" title="tabs_tabbing.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>tabs_tabbing.png</figcaption>
</figure>

The "Tabbing" tab is where you manually enter ballots and monitor the
status of each event. If you're using online ballots, the ballots are
entered by the judges - but you can still use the Tabbing menu to
monitor round starts, outstanding ballots, etc.

### Entering Ballots

To enter a ballot, choose "Enter Ballots," then choose a judge group,
time slot, and event on the sidebar. You will then be shown a list of
ballots, sorted by judge code/name.. The "Entry" tab contains
outstanding ballots - once they are entered, they will appear on the
"Done" tab instead. If you have "double enter" set as your ballot entry
method, then ballots which have only been entered once will be shown in
yellow:

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/tabbing_entry_index-entry.png"
title="tabbing_entry_index-entry.png" width="250" />
<figcaption>tabbing_entry_index-entry.png</figcaption>
</figure>

To enter a ballot, click on the judge code/name. You will then be shown
the ballot entry screen:

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/tabbing_entry_index-debate.png"
title="tabbing_entry_index-debate.png" width="600" />
<figcaption>tabbing_entry_index-debate.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Read the "Hints & Shortcuts" section below the ballot you're entering
for an explanation of the keyboard shortcuts - otherwise you might find
yourself entering incorrect values. When giving a bye, you can leave the
points blank to give average points - otherwise, any value you enter,
including a zero, will be used instead.

Once you're done entering all the ballots for a round (usually,
double-entering), you can proceed to pairing the next debate.

For a more in-depth discussion of how to enter ballots, see the section
on [Tabbing](Tabbing).

### Event Status

The "Status" menu option gives you a convenient central place to view
the status of each event, such as how many ballots are still out,
whether a round is ready to pair, etc. The 'Event Overview' tab will
show you a box for each event, with how many rounds haven't started, how
many ballots are still outstanding, and the status of ballot entry.
<img src="/screenshots/tabbing_status_dashboard-tabs.png"
title="tabbing_status_dashboard-tabs.png" width="700"
alt="tabbing_status_dashboard-tabs.png" />

The "Round Status" tab is a useful way to quickly mark which debates
have started (or been marked as started by a judge, when using online
ballots) - for example, someone from the tab room can walk down the hall
and mark each debate started on their phone.

## Results Tab

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/tabs_results.png" title="tabs_results.png" width="500" />
<figcaption>tabs_results.png</figcaption>
</figure>

The "Results" menu is where you generate final results packets, ensure
tournament results are published to the web, and see up-to-date seed
ordering as the tournament progresses. Note that in addition to the
Results menu, you usually choose whether to publish the results of
individual rounds directly on the schematic in the "Share & Enjoy"
section. of the sidebar.

For a rank-ordered list of entries in an event as of any round, use the
"Event Display" menu option, then choose an event and round from the
dropdown menus.

The "Reports" menu option is where you generate printouts for any kind
of result set you need, including lists of entries and speaker awards
for an awards ceremony.

The "Web Publish" menu option lets you flexibly choose which results to
make available on Tabroom. To publish a results report, you first need
to use the "Result Sheets" in the sidebar:

<figure>
<img src="/screenshots/tabbing_publish_index-calculate.png"
title="tabbing_publish_index-calculate.png" width="250" />
<figcaption>tabbing_publish_index-calculate.png</figcaption>
</figure>

Choose an event, the type of report, and whether to make it public, then
click "Generate." Once you have generated the report, it will appear in
the list on the left. For each report, you can choose whether it should
be published on the web or kept private.
