---
title: "School Administration"
---

As a coach or director, you will use Tabroom to do things like manage
your school's account, maintain your student roster, register for
tournaments, and view school-wide results.

If you just want to know how to register for a tournament, see the
section on [Registration](registration).

When your Tabroom account is linked as the administrator for a school,
you will see a set of tabs when you log-in that correspond to the main
school admin functions:

<img src="/screenshots/coach_menu.png" title="coach_menu.png" width="400" />

This section of the manual will explain how to use each of these tabs.

## School Setup

Before you can access your school's student roster, tournament
registrations, etc. you must first either create a new school (also
known as a chapter), or link your Tabroom account to the pre-existing
school account.

Each school can have multiple Tabroom accounts linked as an
administrator for that school, for example if you have multiple coaches.
Similarly, any Tabroom account can be given administrator access to
multiple different schools, for example if you coach multiple programs
but want to maintain separate student rosters.

### Linking To A Pre-Existing School

Odds are good that your school has already been created in Tabroom and
linked to someone's account. Instead of creating a new school, which
results in confusing duplicates, you should instead attempt to get
access to the pre-existing school. This will also save you the work of
recreating things like student/judge rosters from scratch, and will
ensure that your school's tournament results maintain continuity.

If you are a new coach, you should see if the previous coach can give
your account access to your school in Tabroom. If that's not possible,
you can contact us at help@tabroom.com for help getting access.

IMPORTANT NOTE: If you are a student trying to register for a
tournament, you should NOT create a new school just to sign yourself
up - you should instead ask your director/coach for access to your
school's tabroom account, and register from the main school account.

If you are a previous coach trying to give someone else access to your
school, see the section below on [Controlling Access To A
School](#controlling-access-to-a-school)

### Creating A School

If your school doesn't exist in Tabroom yet, you'll need to create it.
After logging in, click the link for "Create a new school/team" in the
sidebar:

<img src="/screenshots/Coaches_-_Your_Account.png" title="Coaches_-_Your_Account.png"
width="300" />

Then, fill out the required information such as School Name, State, etc.
If you have a National Speech & Debate chapter number, or a variety of
other school ID numbers, you can put them in here to ensure proper
tracking. When done, press Save School Info.

<img src="/screenshots/coaches_-_create_new_school_1.png"
title="coaches_-_create_new_school_1.png" width="500" />

<img src="/screenshots/coaches_-_create_new_school_1.png"
title="coaches_-_create_new_school_1.png" width="500" />

If a school already exists in Tabroom with a similar name, you will see
a warning that says "THAT INSTITUTION ALREADY EXISTS!"

If you need help getting access to an existing school, email
help@tabroom.com. If you're sure you need to create a new school,
check the "Confirm duplication" box:

<img src="/screenshots/user_chapter_create-confirm.png"
title="user_chapter_create-confirm.png" width="400" />

Once your school is created, you should see a welcome message telling
you what to do next - each of the suggested steps is covered in this
manual in detail:

<img src="/screenshots/user_chapter_chapter-welcome.png"
title="user_chapter_chapter-welcome.png" width="500" />

## School Settings

To make changes to your school name, coach access, etc. you will use the
Settings tab:

<img src="/screenshots/coaches_-_settings.png" title="coaches_-_settings.png"
width="600" />

### Controlling Access To A School

To edit who has access to your school's account in Tabroom, go to the
Settings tab and then use the form at the bottom:

<img src="/screenshots/coaches_-_access.png" title="coaches_-_access.png"
width="500" />

You will see a list of Tabroom accounts with access to your school
("chapter").

If you click the "Full Access" button next to an account, it will toggle
between "Full Access" and "Prefs Only." You can use the "Prefs Only"
setting for accounts which should only have limited access to your
school:

You can click the "Remove" button next to an account to remove their
access from the school. Note that you can't remove the last/only account
from a school - so you would need to add another account first.

To grant a new account access, enter the email of a Tabroom account in
the form and click "Grant."

### Allowing Pref Entry

You can grant specific Tabroom accounts access to your school for the
purposes of prefs entry, as explained above. Or, you can let entries
fill our prefs themselves by checking the option on the Settings tab for
"Entries may enter their own prefs." As long as you have linked entries
on your Student Roster to a tabroom account, they will be able to access
their own prefs, but not the rest of the school's.

### Administering Multiple Schools

If your Tabroom account is listed as the administrator for more than one
school simultaneously, you will see a list under "Institutions" in the
sidebar on your account dashboard:

<img src="/screenshots/coaches_-_instituions.png" title="coaches_-_instituions.png"
width="300" />

Before editing your rosters, entering a tournament, etc. make sure you
have selected the appropriate school by clicking on it - this will make
it your "active" school for the rest of the school administration tabs.

## Competitor Roster

Before registering for a tournament, you must add students to your
student roster. When you first go to the Competitors tab, your roster
will be empty:

<img src="/screenshots/user_chapter_students-empty.png"
title="user_chapter_students-empty.png" width="500" />

You can add students to your roster manually, import them from your NSDA
account, or import them from a file.

### Adding Students Manually

Click the "Add a new student" link on the sidebar:

<img src="/screenshots/coaches_-_competitor_roster.png"
title="coaches_-_competitor_roster.png" width="300" />

This will give you two options - you can search for a student to add by
their Tabroom account's email address, or you can manually enter their
information and click the "Save Student" button. You can always link
your student roster entries to your student's Tabroom account later if
you wish.

<img src="/screenshots/coaches_-_competitor_screen.png"
title="coaches_-_competitor_screen.png" width="500" />

Make sure to give each of your students a 4-digit graduation date, like
"2018," and not just two-digits. You can also fill out additional
information, such as diet preferences and gender. When you're done
entering all your students, you can return to your student roster by
using the link on the sidebar.

### Adding Students From A File

To make it easier to add large numbers of students to your roster at
once, you can use the "Import From Spreadsheet" option in the sidebar
instead.

This will give you a form to choose the file to import:

<img src="/screenshots/coaches_-_add_new_student_-_imports.png"
title="coaches_-_add_new_student_-_imports.png" width="500" />

Your file must be saved as a ".csv" comma-delimited file. You can
download a sample file to fill out on the upload page. While it is
possible to create an upload file manually, it is much easier to use
this template, fill out the names and other information, then save and
upload the file - just make sure your spreadsheet program doesn't change
the file format.

### Managing Your Student Roster

#### Student Info

Once you have added students to your roster, you will see them in a list
on the Students tab:

<img src="/screenshots/competitor_list.png" title="competitor_list.png"
width="600" />

Each line on your roster has a number of options. Clicking the "Record"
button will take you to individual results for that student.

Clicking either their first or last name will let you edit their
information, such as name and gender. This will also let you link or
unlink them to a Tabroom account.

You can see if an entry on your roster is linked to a Tabroom account on
your roster by looking in the "Account" column.

You can toggle a student between "Varsity" and "Novice" by clicking the
button next to their entry on your roster.

If a student has graduated, you can remove them from your active roster
by clicking the red "Retire" button.

#### Graduated Students

You can toggle whether to show or hide graduates with the link on the
sidebar, and toggle them between active/graduated status by clicking the
button.

#### Remove Duplicates

If you accidentally created duplicates on your student roster, you can
easily remove them by using the "De-duplicate students" link on the
sidebar. If any duplicates are found, you will be given the choice to
merge them:

<img src="/screenshots/deduplicate_students.png" title="deduplicate_students.png"
width="500" />

#### Dietary Preferences

Your student roster is a convenient place to keep track of your
student's dietary preferences, which also makes it easy for tournaments
to access that information. You can see all of this information in one
place with the "Dietary preferences" link in the sidebar:

<img src="/screenshots/diet_notes.png" title="diet_notes.png" width="500" />

### Linking Your National Speech & Debate Association Roster

Linking your Tabroom student roster to your account with the National
Speech & Debate Association allows you to automatically import your
students, and also enables "auto-pointing," where a student's honor
points can be posted automatically. To take advantage of this, click the
"Students" tab to view your Student Roster. Then, click the link on the
right for "Connect to NSDA Auto Pointing:"

<img src="/screenshots/linking_nsda_member.png" title="linking_nsda_member.png"
width="500" />

First, you'll need to give Tabroom access to your Points Application
account with the National Speech & Debate Association. Enter the
username and password you use to log in to the Points Application
(points.speechanddebate.org), and then type the "confirmation phrase" in
the on-screen instructions. This is to prevent accidental linking to the
wrong school.

If successful, you will see your list of linked Points App logins (with
the option to "Unlink" if you made a mistake). You'll then need to
select your NSDA school from the dropdown menu (just in case your Points
App login is attached to more than one school), and click "Link to
NSDA."

Tabroom will then show you the list of current students on your Tabroom
roster (if any), and ask you to link each student with the correct entry
from your roster with the National Speech & Debate Association. This is
to ensure that each student is matched with the correct merit number.
Using the dropdown menu for each student, choose a name, or "Do not
link" if a student is not a member of the National Speech & Debate
Association. You must also check the "Confirm" box next to each student.

Once you have linked students, you will see them appear on this screen
with their Tabroom and NSDA roster information, current number of honor
society points, along with the option to delink them from their Tabroom
entry.

Once the initial linking of your Tabroom school to your National Speech
& Debate Association account is done, you can import any students on
your NSDA roster to Tabroom by choosing the "Import NSDA Roster to
Tabroom.com" option on the sidebar.

This will show you a list of students from your NSDA roster that are
available to import (with the option to exclude any you don't want).

After you've imported your students, you can verify that they're linked
correctly by clicking their name from your student roster. Their "NSDA
Merit Number" will be displayed at the bottom.

That's it - once a tournament is complete, you should see the points
appear on the NSDA Points Application in the "Autopost" section of your
school profile, where you can confirm them and choose a coach to assign
coach points.

Note that for points to be autoposted, you'll need to have your rosters
correctly linked prior to Tabroom processing that tournament's results.
That is, autoposting points isn't retroactive - if you didn't link
rosters prior to a tournament, you won't see those points.

Also note that for the time being, Congress points are not autoposted
and will need to be input manually.

For auto-pointing to work correctly, the tournament director should
opt-in by matching up their tournament events on Tabroom with the
appropriate Association events in their tournament settings. If you want
to ensure you get credit for points at a tournament you're attending,
make sure to tell the tournament director you'd like them to do so.

## Judge Roster

The judge roster works very similar to the student roster. You can click
the "Add a new judge" link in the sidebar, or if your judge roster is
empty, the form will appear automatically:

<img src="/screenshots/Judge_Roster.png" title="Judge_Roster.png" width="300" />

You can add judges by their Tabroom account email, or manually enter
their information and click the "Save Judge" button. You can link judges
on your roster to their Tabroom accounts later if you wish.

If you want to add a large number of judges at once, you can also use
the "Import from Spreadsheet" option, which is found in the sidebar on
your Students tab (not the Judge tab). For more information, see the
section on [Adding Students From A
File](#adding-students-from-a-file) above. Make sure you use
the "Judge" template, instead of the "Student" template.

Once you have added judges to your roster, they will appear in a list:

<img src="/screenshots/active_judges.png" title="active_judges.png" width="600" />

Clicking on a judge's first or last name will let you edit their
information. You can also toggle a judge between active/inactive to keep
your roster easier to manage. You can select whether to see active or
inactive judges on the sidebar.

If you accidentally created duplicates on your judge roster, you can
easily remove them by using the "Deduplicate judges" link on the
sidebar. If any duplicates are found, you will be given the choice to
merge them:

<img src="/screenshots/deduplicate_judges.png" title="deduplicate_judges.png"
width="500" />

To keep track of your judges dietary preferences, you can use the
"Dietary Restrictions" link on the right - it will take you to the same
page as for your student roster.

## Circuits

In order to register for a tournament, you must first join the
appropriate "circuit." All tournaments on tabroom must be part of a
"circuit" - to find out which circuit the tournament you're interested
in is a part of, look on the main [Calendar](calendars).

Then, use the "Circuits" tab to join the circuit:

<img src="/screenshots/circuit_screen.png" title="circuit_screen.png" width="600" />

First, select the circuit you want to join from the dropdown. Then,
choose whether to join for "Tournaments Only" or "Full Membership."

Choose "Tournaments Only" if you want to register for tournaments, but
don't want circuit emails or to be a dues paying member. Some circuits
are run entirely on a tournament-only basis, such as the US National
Circuit (HS).

"Full Membership" means you will be able to register for tournaments,
and will receive emails about the circuit. You may also be billed for
membership dues. This is best for joining a state or local circuit that
uses Tabroom to manage its membership.

Once you have joined a circuit, your Circuits tab will change to show
you the list of tournaments your school is a part of, and will give you
the option to leave a circuit.

## Registration

### Pre-Tournament Registration

Once you have linked to or created a school, added students and judges
to your roster, and joined a circuit, you can see the section of the
manual on [Registration](registration).

### On-Site Check-In

Some tournaments use online "on-site registration" - where you can mark
your school as having arrived at the tournament, instead of going to a
physical registration location. Note that you still need to have
"registered" for the tournament on tabroom in advance, within the entry
deadlines. This is only for letting the tournament know that you're
actually at the tournament and your registration is correct. At some
tournaments, you can only check-in online if you have already paid your
registration fees.

For more information on using On-Site Check-In, see the
[Registration](registration) section.

## Prefs

At tournaments which have mutually preferred judging, you (or the
competitors) will need to fill out pref sheets before the tournament.
For more information, see the section of the manual on
[Prefs](prefs).

## School Results

If your account is the admin for your school, you can access results for
your entire team.

### Accessing Results

From your account dashboard, you can use the Results tab to see a list
of tournaments with available results:

<img src="/screenshots/results_screen.png" title="results_screen.png" width="600" />

Clicking the Results tab will give you a list of of available reports
for that tournament. Full Tournament Results takes you to the full
public results for the entire tournament instead:

<img src="/screenshots/results_menu.png" title="results_menu.png" width="300" />

Tournament Stats will give you a general overview of participation at
the tournament.

Show Entry Roster will show you your complete entry from the tournament.

Show Team Results will give you the complete results for the entire
team, including final places, seeds, and speaker awards:

<img src="/screenshots/results_menu.png" title="results_menu.png" width="300" />

Print Team Results contains the same information, but in PDF form for
easy printing.

### Accessing Online Ballots/Comments

The Show Online Ballots link in the sidebar allows you to access and
RFD's or Comments (if any) that judges entered online:

<img src="/screenshots/user_results_online-ballots.png"
title="user_results_online-ballots.png" width="500" />

Print Ballots contains the same information in PDF form.

### Accessing Invoices/Receipts

Show Invoice/Receipt gives you a breakdown of your registration costs,
fines, and whether you've paid or owe money - and Print Invoice/Receipt
gives you a similar PDF.

### Past Pref Sheets

You can also access past pref sheets from the sidebar by selecting a
competitor, which will then download a .csv file with the pref sheet for
that tournament:

<img src="/screenshots/user_results_tourn-prefsheets.png"
title="user_results_tourn-prefsheets.png" width="300" />

### Competitor Schools

On the main Results tab, you can also see a list of all the schools your
program has competed against (e.g. for PR reasons):

<img src="/screenshots/user_results_index-stats.png"
title="user_results_index-stats.png" width="300" />