---
title: Nationals Registration
slug: nationals-registration
---

## Registration for Nationals

This is a guide for registering to Nationals as the coach of an
attending school. For information about how to post Districts results as
a District chair of a completed tournament series, see the [District
Chair Nationals Guide](district-chair-nationals-guide).

### Your School Registration

Once you get notified that your school's district's registration has
been posted to Nationals, login to Tabroom.com. Make sure to log into
the Tabroom account corresponding to the email address you got the
notice from; some folks have multiple school records and Tabroom
accounts and might not get their Nationals registration on the first
one. (If you do have multiple schools records and accounts, and find
this annoying, send an email to help@tabroom.com with the details and we
can merge your divided identity together.) There is a "forgotten
password" function beneath the Login box if you do not remember your
Tabroom password.

If you have never used Tabroom at all, your username is the email
address you got notified of your school from, and your password is the
same as your NSDA website account.

Once you log in, you should see the National Tournament already listed
under the tournaments you are registered for:

<img src="/screenshots/1-FindingTournament.png"
title="File:1-FindingTournament.png" />

Click Enter on the right of the tournament.

Then you will be asked how you would like your judge bond refunded to
you. The options and policies around judge bonds have changed this year
so please read the disclaimer carefully.

<img src="/screenshots/2-Disclaimer.png" title="File:2-Disclaimer.png" />

Once you select your refund amount you will be asked to provide the
details of the adult/emergency contact who will be present at Nationals,
and which hotel you are staying in. There is a new entry fee discount in
2018 Nationals so the hotel answer is important to calculating your
final charges.

<img src="/screenshots/3-AdultContact.png" title="File:3-AdultContact.png" />

#### Entries

After you provide hotel information and adult contact information, you
will see a series of tabs along the top of the screen. That'll be where
you can do the rest of your nationals registration. First, click
Entires, and you should see your qualified entries to Nationals listed
out by event:

<img src="/screenshots/4-Entries.png" title="File:4-Entries.png" />

Click ACCEPT to accept an entry to Nationals, or REJECT to Reject that
entry. When you reject an entry, a confirmation screen will require you
to confirm the entry's rejection; the system will automatically inform
and promote the alternate slot, so please do not do this unless you are
certain.

Once you have accepted an entry into their main event, then you can
click the blue edit icon under the Details header at the right to fill
in additional information about the entry, and register them for
Supplementals and Consolations.

First, select the supplemental events you wish to pre-register the entry
for, and click Register Supplementals. If you change your mind about
which Supps and Cons you want the student in, you can change them here
at any time before the May deadline:

<img src="/screenshots/5-Entry-Supps.png" title="File:5-Entry-Supps.png" />

Then, in the next section, you can download, fill out and then re-upload
a scanned copy of the student's mandatory video and release form. You
can also provide a phonetic pronunciation guide if you wish:

<img src="/screenshots/6-ReleaseAndPronunciation.png"
title="File:6-ReleaseAndPronunciation.png" />

Next, for each entry (Mains and Supplementals) you will be asked to
provide various information. For all events you will need to supply the
coach of record to receive points credit, and the coach names you wish
read at awards should the student qualify for recognition. In several
events you will be asked for more information, such as piece titles,
script uploads, and the like. You can also here drop entries that you
have already accepted if it's prior to the May deadline.

<img src="/screenshots/7-PiecesAndCoaches.png" title="File:7-PiecesAndCoaches.png" />

Once you have finished you can click the Entries tab at top, or "Return
to School Entry" at top right, to return to the student listing. You
will see any Supplementals/Consolations listed now under the student.
Once all the required information, forms, etc have been uploaded the red
X on the far right will turn into a green checkmark:

<img src="/screenshots/7A-Finished.png" title="File:7A-Finished.png" />

#### Judges

Under the Judges tab , you will first be shown your current judging
obligations by round and category. If you owe judges in Big Questions or
are supplying judges in World Schools, you will see those listed
underneath the Main Tournament judges.

<img src="/screenshots/8-JudgeObligations.png" title="File:8-JudgeObligations.png" />

Click on Add MAIN judge to add a judge to the main tournament. At first
you have multiple ways to add a new judge. On the left hand side you can
add a judge who is not in the Tabroom system for your school, does not
have a Tabroom account and is not a listed coach under your NSDA
membership record. On the right, you can add judges for whom one or more
of those things are present. Feel free to input a judge who is both on
your Tabroom roster AND is an NSDA coach AND has a Tabroom account by
inputting all three; the more information we have the better the
tournament runs:

<img src="/screenshots/9-AddJudge.png" title="File:9-AddJudge.png" />

Save the judge and more information will appear. The first task is to
designate the judge for a number of rounds (no more than 8) and which
judge pool/categories the judge should be considered for. Select all
that apply. If you select Congress, you will further be asked whether
your prefer to judge Congress (if you select this, changes are very high
you will be pooled to Congress) and whether or not you are qualified and
willing to serve as a Parliamentarian in Congress.

If you select Policy or LD, a Paradigm questionnaire will appear at
right. We are also striving this year to better track and promot the
full range of diverse voices and viewpoints possible in judging,
especially in elimination rounds. If you want to self identify as a
Diverse judge you can do so on this screen. Any and all judges can
optionally fill out the Diversity Questionnaire at right as well.
Identifying as diversity enhancing will not change how much you have to
judge, though it may change which rounds you are assigned for.

If you link the judge to a Tabroom.com account they will be able to fill
out their own Paradigm Form and Diversity Questionnaire from their
Tabroom account as well.

Finally this year you may also self-nominate your judges for semifinals
and finals pools. In the past this was only done by District Chairs, but
any and all who wish to be considered for a Semi or Finals round may do
so. Provide as much additional info about your judging qualifications as
you think would be helpful to us. Please also be aware that if you are
pooled into a semi or final round because you self identified, failure
to show up will count as bond forfeiture. So before self-nominating be
sure you will be at the tournament on Thursday and Friday.

<img src="/screenshots/10-AdditionalJudgeInfo.png"
title="File:10-AdditionalJudgeInfo.png" />

Once you save the judges you can click the Judges tab at the top, and/or
the Return button at top right, to return to your Judging listing. Once
you have done that, you can see how far along towards meeting your
judging commitment you are. Use the "Request Hires" box to specify how
many rounds you may wish to hire out for, with the caveat that Policy
and PF rounds may not be hired ,and at least 6 rounds of judging must be
supplied by the school.

<img src="/screenshots/11-JudgingProvided.png" title="File:11-JudgingProvided.png" />

#### Concessions

Use the Concessions tab to order T-Shirts or purchase a School Resource
Package. You can select the item below, and then click the green Order
Now button to specify sizes and quantities:

<img src="/screenshots/12-Concessions.png" title="File:12-Concessions.png" />

Choose each size you want and how many of that size and hit Save:

<img src="/screenshots/13-ConcessionSizes.png" title="File:13-ConcessionSizes.png" />

Once you have saved a few orders, you can see and cancel your current
order status at right:

<img src="/screenshots/13-Concessions-Finished.png"
title="File:13-Concessions-Finished.png" />

#### Fees & Payments

Finally you can go to the Fees tab once all is confirmed and your
judging is set. You will see your fees listed out. Be sure you are being
charged properly for the supps and cons, main events, and judging you
have hired. if you are short on requested judging there will be very
high penalty fees, for example. Your hotel discount will be applied here
as well if you are staying in a block hotel.

When you are ready to confirm and pay, click on "Invoice your NSDA
Account" at right. That will create you an invoice in the NSDA
accounting system and transfer you to the NSDA main website for payment,
where you can pay via your normal methods that you've used to pay for
memberships, etc.

<img src="/screenshots/14-ViewFeesAndInvoice.png"
title="File:14-ViewFeesAndInvoice.png" />

If you have additional charges later on, such as through added entries
due to changed supplementals entries or promoted alternates, you can
always return to this screen and create another invoice for the
remaining balance, and pay that. Any over-payments will be resolved
after the National tournament.
