---
title: "Money"
---

## Invoice Message/Payable Note

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Money_-_Invoices_Message.png" title="Settings_-_Money_-_Invoices_Message.png" />

**Payable to/Address** - Payment instructions that appear at the top of
tournament invoices.

**Message appearing on invoices** - Freeform message that can appear on
invoices.

**Message appearing on judge fine notifications** - Message put on
invoices that accompanies assigning a judge fine.

## Entry Fees

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Money_-_Entry_Fees.png" title="Settings_-_Money_-_Entry_Fees.png" />

**Include waitlisted entries on invoices** - Option to include
waitlisted entries in charged totals to schools.

**Include waitlisted entries towards judge obligations** - Option to
include waitlisted entries in the calculation of a school's judge
obligations.

**Currency Symbol for invoices** - Option to select the currency symbol
that appears on invoices.

**Charge alternate fees to schools from** - Option to charge a different
set of fees depending on state or region.

## School & Student Fees

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Money_-_School_and_student_fees.png" title="Settings_-_Money_-_School_and_student_fees.png" />

**Fee for each individual student** - Charge issued for each individual
student entered.

**Fee for each individual person (incl judges, asks for coaches)** -
Charge issued for each individual person at a tournament (non-student).

**Per School Fees** - Allows you to create fees that are applied to each
school. Dates can be adjusted to apply to not all schools (for example
schools that enter very close to the start of a tournament).

**Universal fee** - Applies a one time fee to all currently entered
schools. Does not apply to schools that enter after the fee is applied.

## Judge Hire Fees

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Money_-_Judge_hire_fees.png" title="Settings_-_Money_-_Judge_hire_fees.png" />

This screen assigns the value of hired judging per event and whether it
is calculated by per judge, entry or round. It also allows allocating a
certain number of hired judging available to an event. This will allow
schools to claim the judging on a first come first serve basis.
Assigning a value of 0 rounds means a tournament administrator must
manually approve requests for hired judging.

## Nuisance Fines

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Money_-_nuisance_fines.png" title="Settings_-_Money_-_nuisance_fines.png" />

When set, nuisance fines are levied automatically when a school or judge
does something annoying, such as late registrations, late entry drops,
or missing an assigned round. You can choose a dollar amount for each of
these:

You also have the option of whether to automatically email a school's
coach when a fine is applied. This can be useful when, for example, a
judge misses a round and a coach can track them down and yell at them so
they don't miss future rounds as well.

You can change the deadline after which some of the nuisance fines apply
in Settings - Tournament - Dates & Deadlines.

## Concessions

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Money_-_Concessions.png" title="Settings_-_Money_-_Concessions.png" />

A "concession" is any item that you want to sell at the tournament, such
as parking passes or bus tickets. These will then be available for
purchase when a school registers on the website, and they will be
charged on their school invoice (or separately).

To add a new concession, just add a name, price, and description. If
desired, you can also add a cap, which will limit the total number that
can be sold (for example if you only have a limited number of parking
passes). You can also set an order deadline for items that need to be
purchased by a particular date.

## Hotel Blocks

<img src="/screenshots/Settings_-_Money_-_hotel_blocks.png" title="Settings_-_Money_-_hotel_blocks.png" />

A hotel block can be used, if for some reason, your tournament allows
schools to pay you for the hotel rather than the hotel directly. You can
multiply fees by a certain amount or add an entry surcharge related to
the hotel bloack.